# large language model
## T-REG: Preference Optimization with Token-Level Reward Regularization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02685v1
- **Authors**: ['Wenxuan Zhou', 'Shujian Zhang', 'Lingxiao Zhao', 'Tao Meng']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) has been crucial in aligning large language models (LLMs) with human values. Traditionally, RLHF involves generating responses to a query and using a reward model to assign a reward to the entire response. However, this approach faces challenges due to its reliance on a single, sparse reward, which makes it challenging for the model to identify which parts of the sequence contribute most significantly to the final reward. Recent methods have attempted to address this limitation by introducing token-level rewards. However, these methods often rely on either a trained credit assignment model or AI annotators, raising concerns about the quality and reliability of the rewards. In this paper, we propose token-level reward regularization (T-REG), a novel approach that leverages both sequence-level and token-level rewards for preference optimization. Harnessing the self-refinement capabilities of LLMs, our method uses contrastive prompting to enable LLMs to self-generate token-level rewards. These self-generated rewards then act as reward regularization, guiding the model to more effectively distribute sequence-level rewards across tokens. This facilitates better token-level credit assignment and enhances alignment performance. Experiments on the instruction following benchmarks, including Alpaca Eval 2 and Arena-Hard, show that our method consistently outperforms baseline methods by up to 3.8% and 4.4%, respectively. We will release the code and models at https://github.com/wzhouad/T-REG.





## From Isolated Conversations to Hierarchical Schemas: Dynamic Tree Memory Representation for LLMs
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.14052v2
- **Authors**: ['Alireza Rezazadeh', 'Zichao Li', 'Wei Wei', 'Yujia Bao']
- **Abstrat**: Recent advancements in large language models have significantly improved their context windows, yet challenges in effective long-term memory management remain. We introduce MemTree, an algorithm that leverages a dynamic, tree-structured memory representation to optimize the organization, retrieval, and integration of information, akin to human cognitive schemas. MemTree organizes memory hierarchically, with each node encapsulating aggregated textual content, corresponding semantic embeddings, and varying abstraction levels across the tree's depths. Our algorithm dynamically adapts this memory structure by computing and comparing semantic embeddings of new and existing information to enrich the model's context-awareness. This approach allows MemTree to handle complex reasoning and extended interactions more effectively than traditional memory augmentation methods, which often rely on flat lookup tables. Evaluations on benchmarks for multi-turn dialogue understanding and document question answering show that MemTree significantly enhances performance in scenarios that demand structured memory management.





## Mind the Gap: Examining the Self-Improvement Capabilities of Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02674v1
- **Authors**: ['Yuda Song', 'Hanlin Zhang', 'Carson Eisenach', 'Sham Kakade', 'Dean Foster', 'Udaya Ghai']
- **Abstrat**: Self-improvement is a mechanism in Large Language Model (LLM) pre-training, post-training and test-time inference. We explore a framework where the model verifies its own outputs, filters or reweights data based on this verification, and distills the filtered data. Despite several empirical successes, a fundamental understanding is still lacking. In this work, we initiate a comprehensive, modular and controlled study on LLM self-improvement. We provide a mathematical formulation for self-improvement, which is largely governed by a quantity which we formalize as the generation-verification gap. Through experiments with various model families and tasks, we discover a scaling phenomenon of self-improvement -- a variant of the generation-verification gap scales monotonically with the model pre-training flops. We also examine when self-improvement is possible, an iterative self-improvement procedure, and ways to improve its performance. Our findings not only advance understanding of LLM self-improvement with practical implications, but also open numerous avenues for future research into its capabilities and boundaries.





## LLM-Enhanced Path Planning: Safe and Efficient Autonomous Navigation with Instructional Inputs
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02655v1
- **Authors**: ['Pranav Doma', 'Aliasghar Arab', 'Xuesu Xiao']
- **Abstrat**: Autonomous navigation guided by natural language instructions is essential for improving human-robot interaction and enabling complex operations in dynamic environments. While large language models (LLMs) are not inherently designed for planning, they can significantly enhance planning efficiency by providing guidance and informing constraints to ensure safety. This paper introduces a planning framework that integrates LLMs with 2D occupancy grid maps and natural language commands to improve spatial reasoning and task execution in resource-limited settings. By decomposing high-level commands and real-time environmental data, the system generates structured navigation plans for pick-and-place tasks, including obstacle avoidance, goal prioritization, and adaptive behaviors. The framework dynamically recalculates paths to address environmental changes and aligns with implicit social norms for seamless human-robot interaction. Our results demonstrates the potential of LLMs to design context-aware system to enhance navigation efficiency and safety in industrial and dynamic environments.




