# large language model
## Do Large Language Models Perform Latent Multi-Hop Reasoning without Exploiting Shortcuts?
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.16679v1
- **Authors**: ['Sohee Yang', 'Nora Kassner', 'Elena Gribovskaya', 'Sebastian Riedel', 'Mor Geva']
- **Abstrat**: We evaluate how well Large Language Models (LLMs) latently recall and compose facts to answer multi-hop queries like "In the year Scarlett Johansson was born, the Summer Olympics were hosted in the country of". One major challenge in evaluating this ability is that LLMs may have developed shortcuts by encounters of the head entity "Scarlett Johansson" and the answer entity "United States" in the same training sequences or merely guess the answer based on frequency-based priors. To prevent shortcuts, we exclude test queries where the head and answer entities co-appear in pretraining corpora. Through careful selection of relations and facts and systematic removal of cases where models might guess answers or exploit partial matches, we construct an evaluation dataset SOCRATES (ShOrtCut-fRee lATent rEaSoning). We observe that LLMs demonstrate promising latent multi-hop reasoning abilities without exploiting shortcuts, but only for certain types of queries. For queries requiring latent recall of countries as the intermediate answer, the best models achieve 80% latent composability, but this drops to just 5% for the recall of years. Comparisons with Chain-of-Thought composability highlight a significant gap between the ability of models to reason latently versus explicitly. Analysis reveals that latent representations of the intermediate answer are constructed more often in queries with higher latent composability, and shows the emergence of latent multi-hop reasoning during pretraining.





## Reconstructing Hand-Held Objects in 3D from Images and Videos
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06507v3
- **Authors**: ['Jane Wu', 'Georgios Pavlakos', 'Georgia Gkioxari', 'Jitendra Malik']
- **Abstrat**: Objects manipulated by the hand (i.e., manipulanda) are particularly challenging to reconstruct from Internet videos. Not only does the hand occlude much of the object, but also the object is often only visible in a small number of image pixels. At the same time, two strong anchors emerge in this setting: (1) estimated 3D hands help disambiguate the location and scale of the object, and (2) the set of manipulanda is small relative to all possible objects. With these insights in mind, we present a scalable paradigm for hand-held object reconstruction that builds on recent breakthroughs in large language/vision models and 3D object datasets. Given a monocular RGB video, we aim to reconstruct hand-held object geometry in 3D, over time. In order to obtain the best performing single frame model, we first present MCC-Hand-Object (MCC-HO), which jointly reconstructs hand and object geometry given a single RGB image and inferred 3D hand as inputs. Subsequently, we prompt a text-to-3D generative model using GPT-4(V) to retrieve a 3D object model that matches the object in the image(s); we call this alignment Retrieval-Augmented Reconstruction (RAR). RAR provides unified object geometry across all frames, and the result is rigidly aligned with both the input images and 3D MCC-HO observations in a temporally consistent manner. Experiments demonstrate that our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance on lab and Internet image/video datasets. We make our code and models available on the project website: https://janehwu.github.io/mcc-ho





## DreamRunner: Fine-Grained Storytelling Video Generation with Retrieval-Augmented Motion Adaptation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.16657v1
- **Authors**: ['Zun Wang', 'Jialu Li', 'Han Lin', 'Jaehong Yoon', 'Mohit Bansal']
- **Abstrat**: Storytelling video generation (SVG) has recently emerged as a task to create long, multi-motion, multi-scene videos that consistently represent the story described in the input text script. SVG holds great potential for diverse content creation in media and entertainment; however, it also presents significant challenges: (1) objects must exhibit a range of fine-grained, complex motions, (2) multiple objects need to appear consistently across scenes, and (3) subjects may require multiple motions with seamless transitions within a single scene. To address these challenges, we propose DreamRunner, a novel story-to-video generation method: First, we structure the input script using a large language model (LLM) to facilitate both coarse-grained scene planning as well as fine-grained object-level layout and motion planning. Next, DreamRunner presents retrieval-augmented test-time adaptation to capture target motion priors for objects in each scene, supporting diverse motion customization based on retrieved videos, thus facilitating the generation of new videos with complex, scripted motions. Lastly, we propose a novel spatial-temporal region-based 3D attention and prior injection module SR3AI for fine-grained object-motion binding and frame-by-frame semantic control. We compare DreamRunner with various SVG baselines, demonstrating state-of-the-art performance in character consistency, text alignment, and smooth transitions. Additionally, DreamRunner exhibits strong fine-grained condition-following ability in compositional text-to-video generation, significantly outperforming baselines on T2V-ComBench. Finally, we validate DreamRunner's robust ability to generate multi-object interactions with qualitative examples.





## Self-Generated Critiques Boost Reward Modeling for Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.16646v1
- **Authors**: ['Yue Yu', 'Zhengxing Chen', 'Aston Zhang', 'Liang Tan', 'Chenguang Zhu', 'Richard Yuanzhe Pang', 'Yundi Qian', 'Xuewei Wang', 'Suchin Gururangan', 'Chao Zhang', 'Melanie Kambadur', 'Dhruv Mahajan', 'Rui Hou']
- **Abstrat**: Reward modeling is crucial for aligning large language models (LLMs) with human preferences, especially in reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF). However, current reward models mainly produce scalar scores and struggle to incorporate critiques in a natural language format. We hypothesize that predicting both critiques and the scalar reward would improve reward modeling ability. Motivated by this, we propose Critic-RM, a framework that improves reward models using self-generated critiques without extra supervision. Critic-RM employs a two-stage process: generating and filtering high-quality critiques, followed by joint fine-tuning on reward prediction and critique generation. Experiments across benchmarks show that Critic-RM improves reward modeling accuracy by 3.7%-7.3% compared to standard reward models and LLM judges, demonstrating strong performance and data efficiency. Additional studies further validate the effectiveness of generated critiques in rectifying flawed reasoning steps with 2.5%-3.2% gains in improving reasoning accuracy.





## Preventing Jailbreak Prompts as Malicious Tools for Cybercriminals: A Cyber Defense Perspective
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.16642v1
- **Authors**: ['Jean Marie Tshimula', 'Xavier Ndona', "D'Jeff K. Nkashama", 'Pierre-Martin Tardif', 'Froduald Kabanza', 'Marc Frappier', 'Shengrui Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Jailbreak prompts pose a significant threat in AI and cybersecurity, as they are crafted to bypass ethical safeguards in large language models, potentially enabling misuse by cybercriminals. This paper analyzes jailbreak prompts from a cyber defense perspective, exploring techniques like prompt injection and context manipulation that allow harmful content generation, content filter evasion, and sensitive information extraction. We assess the impact of successful jailbreaks, from misinformation and automated social engineering to hazardous content creation, including bioweapons and explosives. To address these threats, we propose strategies involving advanced prompt analysis, dynamic safety protocols, and continuous model fine-tuning to strengthen AI resilience. Additionally, we highlight the need for collaboration among AI researchers, cybersecurity experts, and policymakers to set standards for protecting AI systems. Through case studies, we illustrate these cyber defense approaches, promoting responsible AI practices to maintain system integrity and public trust. \textbf{\color{red}Warning: This paper contains content which the reader may find offensive.}





## DocPedia: Unleashing the Power of Large Multimodal Model in the Frequency Domain for Versatile Document Understanding
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.11810v4
- **Authors**: ['Hao Feng', 'Qi Liu', 'Hao Liu', 'Jingqun Tang', 'Wengang Zhou', 'Houqiang Li', 'Can Huang']
- **Abstrat**: This work presents DocPedia, a novel large multimodal model (LMM) for versatile OCR-free document understanding, capable of parsing images up to 2,560$\times$2,560 resolution. Unlike existing work either struggle with high-resolution documents or give up the large language model thus vision or language ability constrained, our DocPedia directly processes visual input in the frequency domain rather than the pixel space. The unique characteristic enables DocPedia to capture a greater amount of visual and textual information using a limited number of visual tokens. To consistently enhance both perception and comprehension abilities of our model, we develop a dual-stage training strategy and enrich instructions/annotations of all training tasks covering multiple document types. Extensive quantitative and qualitative experiments conducted on various publicly available benchmarks confirm the mutual benefits of jointly learning perception and comprehension tasks. The results provide further evidence of the effectiveness and superior performance of our DocPedia over other methods.




