# large language model
## UTMath: Math Evaluation with Unit Test via Reasoning-to-Coding Thoughts
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.07240v1
- **Authors**: ['Bo Yang', 'Qingping Yang', 'Runtao Liu']
- **Abstrat**: The evaluation of mathematical reasoning capabilities is essential for advancing Artificial General Intelligence (AGI). While Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown impressive performance in solving mathematical problems, existing benchmarks such as GSM8K and MATH present limitations, including narrow problem definitions with specific numbers and reliance on predetermined rules that hinder accurate assessments of reasoning and adaptability. This paper introduces the UTMath Benchmark, which robustly evaluates the models through extensive unit tests. It consists of 1,053 problems across 9 mathematical domains, with over 68 test cases per problem.We propose an innovative evaluation framework inspired by unit testing in software development, focusing on both accuracy and reliability of results. Furthermore, we introduce the Reasoning-to-Coding of Thoughts (RCoT) approach, which encourages LLMs to perform explicit reasoning before generating code, leading to generating more advanced solution and improved performance. Furthermore, we are releasing not only the UTMath benchmark but also the UTMath-Train training dataset (more than 70k samples), to support the community in further exploring mathematical reasoning.





## Tooling or Not Tooling? The Impact of Tools on Language Agents for Chemistry Problem Solving
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.07228v1
- **Authors**: ['Botao Yu', 'Frazier N. Baker', 'Ziru Chen', 'Garrett Herb', 'Boyu Gou', 'Daniel Adu-Ampratwum', 'Xia Ning', 'Huan Sun']
- **Abstrat**: To enhance large language models (LLMs) for chemistry problem solving, several LLM-based agents augmented with tools have been proposed, such as ChemCrow and Coscientist. However, their evaluations are narrow in scope, leaving a large gap in understanding the benefits of tools across diverse chemistry tasks. To bridge this gap, we develop ChemAgent, an enhanced chemistry agent over ChemCrow, and conduct a comprehensive evaluation of its performance on both specialized chemistry tasks and general chemistry questions. Surprisingly, ChemAgent does not consistently outperform its base LLMs without tools. Our error analysis with a chemistry expert suggests that: For specialized chemistry tasks, such as synthesis prediction, we should augment agents with specialized tools; however, for general chemistry questions like those in exams, agents' ability to reason correctly with chemistry knowledge matters more, and tool augmentation does not always help.





## Stronger Random Baselines for In-Context Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.13020v2
- **Authors**: ['Gregory Yauney', 'David Mimno']
- **Abstrat**: Evaluating the in-context learning classification performance of language models poses challenges due to small dataset sizes, extensive prompt-selection using the validation set, and intentionally difficult tasks that lead to near-random performance. The standard random baseline--the expected accuracy of guessing labels uniformly at random--is stable when the evaluation set is used only once or when the dataset is large. We account for the common practice of validation set reuse and existing small datasets with a stronger random baseline: the expected maximum accuracy across multiple random classifiers. When choosing the best prompt demonstrations across six quantized language models applied to 16 BIG-bench Lite tasks, more than 20% of the few-shot results that exceed the standard baseline do not exceed this stronger random baseline. When held-out test sets are available, this stronger baseline is also a better predictor of held-out performance than the standard baseline, avoiding unnecessary test set evaluations. This maximum random baseline provides an easily calculated drop-in replacement for the standard baseline.





## Comparing Bottom-Up and Top-Down Steering Approaches on In-Context Learning Tasks
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.07213v1
- **Authors**: ['Madeline Brumley', 'Joe Kwon', 'David Krueger', 'Dmitrii Krasheninnikov', 'Usman Anwar']
- **Abstrat**: A key objective of interpretability research on large language models (LLMs) is to develop methods for robustly steering models toward desired behaviors. To this end, two distinct approaches to interpretability -- ``bottom-up" and ``top-down" -- have been presented, but there has been little quantitative comparison between them. We present a case study comparing the effectiveness of representative vector steering methods from each branch: function vectors (FV; arXiv:2310.15213), as a bottom-up method, and in-context vectors (ICV; arXiv:2311.06668) as a top-down method. While both aim to capture compact representations of broad in-context learning tasks, we find they are effective only on specific types of tasks: ICVs outperform FVs in behavioral shifting, whereas FVs excel in tasks requiring more precision. We discuss the implications for future evaluations of steering methods and for further research into top-down and bottom-up steering given these findings.





## DLCR: A Generative Data Expansion Framework via Diffusion for Clothes-Changing Person Re-ID
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.07205v1
- **Authors**: ['Nyle Siddiqui', 'Florinel Alin Croitoru', 'Gaurav Kumar Nayak', 'Radu Tudor Ionescu', 'Mubarak Shah']
- **Abstrat**: With the recent exhibited strength of generative diffusion models, an open research question is \textit{if images generated by these models can be used to learn better visual representations}. While this generative data expansion may suffice for easier visual tasks, we explore its efficacy on a more difficult discriminative task: clothes-changing person re-identification (CC-ReID). CC-ReID aims to match people appearing in non-overlapping cameras, even when they change their clothes across cameras. Not only are current CC-ReID models constrained by the limited diversity of clothing in current CC-ReID datasets, but generating additional data that retains important personal features for accurate identification is a current challenge. To address this issue we propose DLCR, a novel data expansion framework that leverages pre-trained diffusion and large language models (LLMs) to accurately generate diverse images of individuals in varied attire. We generate additional data for five benchmark CC-ReID datasets (PRCC, CCVID, LaST, VC-Clothes, and LTCC) and \textbf{increase their clothing diversity by \boldmath{$10$}x, totaling over \boldmath{$2.1$}M images generated}. DLCR employs diffusion-based text-guided inpainting, conditioned on clothing prompts constructed using LLMs, to generate synthetic data that only modifies a subject's clothes while preserving their personally identifiable features. With this massive increase in data, we introduce two novel strategies - progressive learning and test-time prediction refinement - that respectively reduce training time and further boosts CC-ReID performance. On the PRCC dataset, we obtain a large top-1 accuracy improvement of $11.3\%$ by training CAL, a previous state of the art (SOTA) method, with DLCR-generated data. We publicly release our code and generated data for each dataset here: \url{https://github.com/CroitoruAlin/dlcr}.





## The Super Weight in Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.07191v1
- **Authors**: ['Mengxia Yu', 'De Wang', 'Qi Shan', 'Colorado Reed', 'Alvin Wan']
- **Abstrat**: Recent works have shown a surprising result: a small fraction of Large Language Model (LLM) parameter outliers are disproportionately important to the quality of the model. LLMs contain billions of parameters, so these small fractions, such as 0.01%, translate to hundreds of thousands of parameters. In this work, we present an even more surprising finding: Pruning as few as a single parameter can destroy an LLM's ability to generate text -- increasing perplexity by 3 orders of magnitude and reducing zero-shot accuracy to guessing. We propose a data-free method for identifying such parameters, termed super weights, using a single forward pass through the model. We additionally find that these super weights induce correspondingly rare and large activation outliers, termed super activations. When preserved with high precision, super activations can improve simple round-to-nearest quantization to become competitive with state-of-the-art methods. For weight quantization, we similarly find that by preserving the super weight and clipping other weight outliers, round-to-nearest quantization can scale to much larger block sizes than previously considered. To facilitate further research into super weights, we provide an index of super weight coordinates for common, openly available LLMs.




