# large language model
## Medical Adaptation of Large Language and Vision-Language Models: Are We Making Progress?
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04118v1
- **Authors**: ['Daniel P. Jeong', 'Saurabh Garg', 'Zachary C. Lipton', 'Michael Oberst']
- **Abstrat**: Several recent works seek to develop foundation models specifically for medical applications, adapting general-purpose large language models (LLMs) and vision-language models (VLMs) via continued pretraining on publicly available biomedical corpora. These works typically claim that such domain-adaptive pretraining (DAPT) improves performance on downstream medical tasks, such as answering medical licensing exam questions. In this paper, we compare seven public "medical" LLMs and two VLMs against their corresponding base models, arriving at a different conclusion: all medical VLMs and nearly all medical LLMs fail to consistently improve over their base models in the zero-/few-shot prompting regime for medical question-answering (QA) tasks. For instance, across the tasks and model pairs we consider in the 3-shot setting, medical LLMs only outperform their base models in 12.1% of cases, reach a (statistical) tie in 49.8% of cases, and are significantly worse than their base models in the remaining 38.2% of cases. Our conclusions are based on (i) comparing each medical model head-to-head, directly against the corresponding base model; (ii) optimizing the prompts for each model separately; and (iii) accounting for statistical uncertainty in comparisons. While these basic practices are not consistently adopted in the literature, our ablations show that they substantially impact conclusions. Our findings suggest that state-of-the-art general-domain models may already exhibit strong medical knowledge and reasoning capabilities, and offer recommendations to strengthen the conclusions of future studies.





## How Transformers Solve Propositional Logic Problems: A Mechanistic Analysis
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04105v1
- **Authors**: ['Guan Zhe Hong', 'Nishanth Dikkala', 'Enming Luo', 'Cyrus Rashtchian', 'Rina Panigrahy']
- **Abstrat**: Large language models (LLMs) have shown amazing performance on tasks that require planning and reasoning. Motivated by this, we investigate the internal mechanisms that underpin a network's ability to perform complex logical reasoning. We first construct a synthetic propositional logic problem that serves as a concrete test-bed for network training and evaluation. Crucially, this problem demands nontrivial planning to solve, but we can train a small transformer to achieve perfect accuracy. Building on our set-up, we then pursue an understanding of precisely how a three-layer transformer, trained from scratch, solves this problem. We are able to identify certain "planning" and "reasoning" circuits in the network that necessitate cooperation between the attention blocks to implement the desired logic. To expand our findings, we then study a larger model, Mistral 7B. Using activation patching, we characterize internal components that are critical in solving our logic problem. Overall, our work systemically uncovers novel aspects of small and large transformers, and continues the study of how they plan and reason.





## OpenFactCheck: A Unified Framework for Factuality Evaluation of LLMs
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.11832v2
- **Authors**: ['Hasan Iqbal', 'Yuxia Wang', 'Minghan Wang', 'Georgi Georgiev', 'Jiahui Geng', 'Iryna Gurevych', 'Preslav Nakov']
- **Abstrat**: The increased use of large language models (LLMs) across a variety of real-world applications calls for automatic tools to check the factual accuracy of their outputs, as LLMs often hallucinate. This is difficult as it requires assessing the factuality of free-form open-domain responses. While there has been a lot of research on this topic, different papers use different evaluation benchmarks and measures, which makes them hard to compare and hampers future progress. To mitigate these issues, we developed OpenFactCheck, a unified framework, with three modules: (i) RESPONSEEVAL, which allows users to easily customize an automatic fact-checking system and to assess the factuality of all claims in an input document using that system, (ii) LLMEVAL, which assesses the overall factuality of an LLM, and (iii) CHECKEREVAL, a module to evaluate automatic fact-checking systems. OpenFactCheck is open-sourced (https://github.com/mbzuai-nlp/openfactcheck) and publicly released as a Python library (https://pypi.org/project/openfactcheck/) and also as a web service (http://app.openfactcheck.com). A video describing the system is available at https://youtu.be/-i9VKL0HleI.




