# large language model
## PRIMA: Multi-Image Vision-Language Models for Reasoning Segmentation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15209v1
- **Authors**: ['Muntasir Wahed', 'Kiet A. Nguyen', 'Adheesh Sunil Juvekar', 'Xinzhuo Li', 'Xiaona Zhou', 'Vedant Shah', 'Tianjiao Yu', 'Pinar Yanardag', 'Ismini Lourentzou']
- **Abstrat**: Despite significant advancements in Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs), existing pixel-grounding models operate on single-image settings, limiting their ability to perform detailed, fine-grained comparisons across multiple images. Conversely, current multi-image understanding models lack pixel-level grounding. Our work addresses this gap by introducing the task of multi-image pixel-grounded reasoning segmentation, and PRIMA, a novel LVLM that integrates pixel-level grounding with robust multi-image reasoning capabilities to produce contextually rich, pixel-grounded explanations. Central to PRIMA is an efficient vision module that queries fine-grained visual representations across multiple images, reducing TFLOPs by $25.3\%$. To support training and evaluation, we curate $M^4Seg$, a new reasoning segmentation benchmark consisting of $\sim$224K question-answer pairs that require fine-grained visual understanding across multiple images. Experimental results demonstrate PRIMA outperforms state-of-the-art baselines.





## OpenEMMA: Open-Source Multimodal Model for End-to-End Autonomous Driving
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15208v1
- **Authors**: ['Shuo Xing', 'Chengyuan Qian', 'Yuping Wang', 'Hongyuan Hua', 'Kexin Tian', 'Yang Zhou', 'Zhengzhong Tu']
- **Abstrat**: Since the advent of Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs), they have made a significant impact across a wide range of real-world applications, particularly in Autonomous Driving (AD). Their ability to process complex visual data and reason about intricate driving scenarios has paved the way for a new paradigm in end-to-end AD systems. However, the progress of developing end-to-end models for AD has been slow, as existing fine-tuning methods demand substantial resources, including extensive computational power, large-scale datasets, and significant funding. Drawing inspiration from recent advancements in inference computing, we propose OpenEMMA, an open-source end-to-end framework based on MLLMs. By incorporating the Chain-of-Thought reasoning process, OpenEMMA achieves significant improvements compared to the baseline when leveraging a diverse range of MLLMs. Furthermore, OpenEMMA demonstrates effectiveness, generalizability, and robustness across a variety of challenging driving scenarios, offering a more efficient and effective approach to autonomous driving. We release all the codes in https://github.com/taco-group/OpenEMMA.





## AutoTrust: Benchmarking Trustworthiness in Large Vision Language Models for Autonomous Driving
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15206v1
- **Authors**: ['Shuo Xing', 'Hongyuan Hua', 'Xiangbo Gao', 'Shenzhe Zhu', 'Renjie Li', 'Kexin Tian', 'Xiaopeng Li', 'Heng Huang', 'Tianbao Yang', 'Zhangyang Wang', 'Yang Zhou', 'Huaxiu Yao', 'Zhengzhong Tu']
- **Abstrat**: Recent advancements in large vision language models (VLMs) tailored for autonomous driving (AD) have shown strong scene understanding and reasoning capabilities, making them undeniable candidates for end-to-end driving systems. However, limited work exists on studying the trustworthiness of DriveVLMs -- a critical factor that directly impacts public transportation safety. In this paper, we introduce AutoTrust, a comprehensive trustworthiness benchmark for large vision-language models in autonomous driving (DriveVLMs), considering diverse perspectives -- including trustfulness, safety, robustness, privacy, and fairness. We constructed the largest visual question-answering dataset for investigating trustworthiness issues in driving scenarios, comprising over 10k unique scenes and 18k queries. We evaluated six publicly available VLMs, spanning from generalist to specialist, from open-source to commercial models. Our exhaustive evaluations have unveiled previously undiscovered vulnerabilities of DriveVLMs to trustworthiness threats. Specifically, we found that the general VLMs like LLaVA-v1.6 and GPT-4o-mini surprisingly outperform specialized models fine-tuned for driving in terms of overall trustworthiness. DriveVLMs like DriveLM-Agent are particularly vulnerable to disclosing sensitive information. Additionally, both generalist and specialist VLMs remain susceptible to adversarial attacks and struggle to ensure unbiased decision-making across diverse environments and populations. Our findings call for immediate and decisive action to address the trustworthiness of DriveVLMs -- an issue of critical importance to public safety and the welfare of all citizens relying on autonomous transportation systems. Our benchmark is publicly available at \url{https://github.com/taco-group/AutoTrust}, and the leaderboard is released at \url{https://taco-group.github.io/AutoTrust/}.





## MMLU-CF: A Contamination-free Multi-task Language Understanding Benchmark
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15194v1
- **Authors**: ['Qihao Zhao', 'Yangyu Huang', 'Tengchao Lv', 'Lei Cui', 'Qinzheng Sun', 'Shaoguang Mao', 'Xin Zhang', 'Ying Xin', 'Qiufeng Yin', 'Scarlett Li', 'Furu Wei']
- **Abstrat**: Multiple-choice question (MCQ) datasets like Massive Multitask Language Understanding (MMLU) are widely used to evaluate the commonsense, understanding, and problem-solving abilities of large language models (LLMs). However, the open-source nature of these benchmarks and the broad sources of training data for LLMs have inevitably led to benchmark contamination, resulting in unreliable evaluation results. To alleviate this issue, we propose a contamination-free and more challenging MCQ benchmark called MMLU-CF. This benchmark reassesses LLMs' understanding of world knowledge by averting both unintentional and malicious data leakage. To avoid unintentional data leakage, we source data from a broader domain and design three decontamination rules. To prevent malicious data leakage, we divide the benchmark into validation and test sets with similar difficulty and subject distributions. The test set remains closed-source to ensure reliable results, while the validation set is publicly available to promote transparency and facilitate independent verification. Our evaluation of mainstream LLMs reveals that the powerful GPT-4o achieves merely a 5-shot score of 73.4% and a 0-shot score of 71.9% on the test set, which indicates the effectiveness of our approach in creating a more rigorous and contamination-free evaluation standard. The GitHub repository is available at https://github.com/microsoft/MMLU-CF and the dataset refers to https://huggingface.co/datasets/microsoft/MMLU-CF.





## LlamaFusion: Adapting Pretrained Language Models for Multimodal Generation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15188v1
- **Authors**: ['Weijia Shi', 'Xiaochuang Han', 'Chunting Zhou', 'Weixin Liang', 'Xi Victoria Lin', 'Luke Zettlemoyer', 'Lili Yu']
- **Abstrat**: We present LlamaFusion, a framework for empowering pretrained text-only large language models (LLMs) with multimodal generative capabilities, enabling them to understand and generate both text and images in arbitrary sequences. LlamaFusion leverages existing Llama-3's weights for processing texts autoregressively while introducing additional and parallel transformer modules for processing images with diffusion. During training, the data from each modality is routed to its dedicated modules: modality-specific feedforward layers, query-key-value projections, and normalization layers process each modality independently, while the shared self-attention layers allow interactions across text and image features. By freezing the text-specific modules and only training the image-specific modules, LlamaFusion preserves the language capabilities of text-only LLMs while developing strong visual understanding and generation abilities. Compared to methods that pretrain multimodal generative models from scratch, our experiments demonstrate that, LlamaFusion improves image understanding by 20% and image generation by 3.6% using only 50% of the FLOPs while maintaining Llama-3's language capabilities. We also demonstrate that this framework can adapt existing vision-language models with multimodal generation ability. Overall, this framework not only leverages existing computational investments in text-only LLMs but also enables the parallel development of language and vision capabilities, presenting a promising direction for efficient multimodal model development.





## Data for Mathematical Copilots: Better Ways of Presenting Proofs for Machine Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15184v1
- **Authors**: ['Simon Frieder', 'Jonas Bayer', 'Katherine M. Collins', 'Julius Berner', 'Jacob Loader', 'András Juhász', 'Fabian Ruehle', 'Sean Welleck', 'Gabriel Poesia', 'Ryan-Rhys Griffiths', 'Adrian Weller', 'Anirudh Goyal', 'Thomas Lukasiewicz', 'Timothy Gowers']
- **Abstrat**: The suite of datasets commonly used to train and evaluate the mathematical capabilities of AI-based mathematical copilots (primarily large language models) exhibit several shortcomings. These limitations include a restricted scope of mathematical complexity, typically not exceeding lower undergraduate-level mathematics, binary rating protocols and other issues, which makes comprehensive proof-based evaluation suites difficult. We systematically explore these limitations and contend that enhancing the capabilities of large language models, or any forthcoming advancements in AI-based mathematical assistants (copilots or "thought partners"), necessitates a paradigm shift in the design of mathematical datasets and the evaluation criteria of mathematical ability: It is necessary to move away from result-based datasets (theorem statement to theorem proof) and convert the rich facets of mathematical research practice to data LLMs can train on. Examples of these are mathematical workflows (sequences of atomic, potentially subfield-dependent tasks that are often performed when creating new mathematics), which are an important part of the proof-discovery process. Additionally, we advocate for mathematical dataset developers to consider the concept of "motivated proof", introduced by G. P\'olya in 1949, which can serve as a blueprint for datasets that offer a better proof learning signal, alleviating some of the mentioned limitations. Lastly, we introduce math datasheets for datasets, extending the general, dataset-agnostic variants of datasheets: We provide a questionnaire designed specifically for math datasets that we urge dataset creators to include with their datasets. This will make creators aware of potential limitations of their datasets while at the same time making it easy for readers to assess it from the point of view of training and evaluating mathematical copilots.





## STRAP: Robot Sub-Trajectory Retrieval for Augmented Policy Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15182v1
- **Authors**: ['Marius Memmel', 'Jacob Berg', 'Bingqing Chen', 'Abhishek Gupta', 'Jonathan Francis']
- **Abstrat**: Robot learning is witnessing a significant increase in the size, diversity, and complexity of pre-collected datasets, mirroring trends in domains such as natural language processing and computer vision. Many robot learning methods treat such datasets as multi-task expert data and learn a multi-task, generalist policy by training broadly across them. Notably, while these generalist policies can improve the average performance across many tasks, the performance of generalist policies on any one task is often suboptimal due to negative transfer between partitions of the data, compared to task-specific specialist policies. In this work, we argue for the paradigm of training policies during deployment given the scenarios they encounter: rather than deploying pre-trained policies to unseen problems in a zero-shot manner, we non-parametrically retrieve and train models directly on relevant data at test time. Furthermore, we show that many robotics tasks share considerable amounts of low-level behaviors and that retrieval at the "sub"-trajectory granularity enables significantly improved data utilization, generalization, and robustness in adapting policies to novel problems. In contrast, existing full-trajectory retrieval methods tend to underutilize the data and miss out on shared cross-task content. This work proposes STRAP, a technique for leveraging pre-trained vision foundation models and dynamic time warping to retrieve sub-sequences of trajectories from large training corpora in a robust fashion. STRAP outperforms both prior retrieval algorithms and multi-task learning methods in simulated and real experiments, showing the ability to scale to much larger offline datasets in the real world as well as the ability to learn robust control policies with just a handful of real-world demonstrations.





## HPC-Coder-V2: Studying Code LLMs Across Low-Resource Parallel Languages
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15178v1
- **Authors**: ['Aman Chaturvedi', 'Daniel Nichols', 'Siddharth Singh', 'Abhinav Bhatele']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Model (LLM) based coding tools have been tremendously successful as software development assistants, yet they are often designed for general purpose programming tasks and perform poorly for more specialized domains such as high performance computing. Creating specialized models and tools for these domains is crucial towards gaining the benefits of LLMs in areas such as HPC. While previous work has explored HPC-specific models, LLMs still struggle to generate parallel code and it is not at all clear what hurdles are still holding back these LLMs and what must be done to overcome them. In this work, we conduct an in-depth study along the many axes of fine-tuning a specialized HPC LLM in order to better understand the challenges. Based on our findings we fine-tune and evaluate a specialized HPC LLM that is shown to be the best performing open-source code LLM for parallel code generation to date.





## Critical-Questions-of-Thought: Steering LLM reasoning with Argumentative Querying
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15177v1
- **Authors**: ['Federico Castagna', 'Isabel Sassoon', 'Simon Parsons']
- **Abstrat**: Studies have underscored how, regardless of the recent breakthrough and swift advances in AI research, even state-of-the-art Large Language models (LLMs) continue to struggle when performing logical and mathematical reasoning. The results seem to suggest that LLMs still work as (highly advanced) data pattern identifiers, scoring poorly when attempting to generalise and solve reasoning problems the models have never previously seen or that are not close to samples presented in their training data. To address this compelling concern, this paper makes use of the notion of critical questions from the literature on argumentation theory, focusing in particular on Toulmin's model of argumentation. We show that employing these critical questions can improve the reasoning capabilities of LLMs. By probing the rationale behind the models' reasoning process, the LLM can assess whether some logical mistake is occurring and correct it before providing the final reply to the user prompt. The underlying idea is drawn from the gold standard of any valid argumentative procedure: the conclusion is valid if it is entailed by accepted premises. Or, to paraphrase such Aristotelian principle in a real-world approximation, characterised by incomplete information and presumptive logic, the conclusion is valid if not proved otherwise. This approach successfully steers the models' output through a reasoning pipeline, resulting in better performance against the baseline and its Chain-of-Thought (CoT) implementation. To this end, an extensive evaluation of the proposed approach on the MT-Bench Reasoning and Math tasks across a range of LLMs is provided.





## Rethinking Uncertainty Estimation in Natural Language Generation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15176v1
- **Authors**: ['Lukas Aichberger', 'Kajetan Schweighofer', 'Sepp Hochreiter']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) are increasingly employed in real-world applications, driving the need to evaluate the trustworthiness of their generated text. To this end, reliable uncertainty estimation is essential. Since current LLMs generate text autoregressively through a stochastic process, the same prompt can lead to varying outputs. Consequently, leading uncertainty estimation methods generate and analyze multiple output sequences to determine the LLM's uncertainty. However, generating output sequences is computationally expensive, making these methods impractical at scale. In this work, we inspect the theoretical foundations of the leading methods and explore new directions to enhance their computational efficiency. Building on the framework of proper scoring rules, we find that the negative log-likelihood of the most likely output sequence constitutes a theoretically grounded uncertainty measure. To approximate this alternative measure, we propose G-NLL, which has the advantage of being obtained using only a single output sequence generated by greedy decoding. This makes uncertainty estimation more efficient and straightforward, while preserving theoretical rigor. Empirical results demonstrate that G-NLL achieves state-of-the-art performance across various LLMs and tasks. Our work lays the foundation for efficient and reliable uncertainty estimation in natural language generation, challenging the necessity of more computationally involved methods currently leading the field.





## CodeLutra: Boosting LLM Code Generation via Preference-Guided Refinement
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.05199v2
- **Authors**: ['Leitian Tao', 'Xiang Chen', 'Tong Yu', 'Tung Mai', 'Ryan Rossi', 'Yixuan Li', 'Saayan Mitra']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) have revolutionized code generation but require significant resources and often over-generalize, limiting their task-specific efficiency. Fine-tuning smaller, open-source LLMs provides a cost-effective alternative. However, standard supervised approaches rely only on correct examples, missing valuable insights from failures. We introduce CodeLutra, a framework that leverages both correct and incorrect code attempts. Instead of using only correct solutions, CodeLutra applies iterative preference-based refinement, comparing successful and failed outputs to better approximate desired results. This approach narrows the performance gap with state-of-the-art larger models without requiring massive datasets or auxiliary models. For instance, on a challenging data science coding task, using only 500 samples improved Llama-3-8B's accuracy from 28.2% to 48.6%, approaching GPT-4's level. By learning from both successes and mistakes, CodeLutra provides a scalable and efficient path to high-quality code generation, making smaller open-source models more competitive with leading closed-source alternatives.





## Language Models as Continuous Self-Evolving Data Engineers
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15151v1
- **Authors**: ['Peidong Wang', 'Ming Wang', 'Zhiming Ma', 'Xiaocui Yang', 'Shi Feng', 'Daling Wang', 'Yifei Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities on various tasks, while the further evolvement is limited to the lack of high-quality training data. In addition, traditional training approaches rely too much on expert-labeled data, setting an upper limit on the performance of LLMs. To address this issue, we propose a novel paradigm that enables LLMs to train itself by autonomously generating, cleaning, reviewing, and annotating data with preference information, named LANCE. Our approach demonstrates that LLMs can serve as continuous self-evolving data engineers, significantly reducing the time and cost of the post-training data construction process. Through iterative fine-tuning on different variants of the Qwen2, we validate the effectiveness of LANCE across various tasks, showing that it can continuously improve model performance and maintain high-quality data generation. Across eight benchmark dimensions, LANCE resulted in an average score enhancement of 3.36 for Qwen2-7B and 2.70 for Qwen2-7B-Instruct. This training paradigm with autonomous data construction not only reduces the reliance on human experts or external models but also ensures that the data aligns with human values and preferences, paving the way for the development of future superintelligent systems that can exceed human capabilities.





## Adaptive Pruning for Large Language Models with Structural Importance Awareness
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15127v1
- **Authors**: ['Haotian Zheng', 'Jinke Ren', 'Yushan Sun', 'Ruichen Zhang', 'Wenbo Zhang', 'Zhen Li', 'Dusit Niyato', 'Shuguang Cui', 'Yatong Han']
- **Abstrat**: The recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) have significantly improved language understanding and generation capabilities. However, it is difficult to deploy LLMs on resource-constrained edge devices due to their high computational and storage resource demands. To address this issue, we propose a novel LLM model pruning method, namely structurally-aware adaptive pruning (SAAP), to significantly reduce the computational and memory costs while maintaining model performance. We first define an adaptive importance fusion metric to evaluate the importance of all coupled structures in LLMs by considering their homoscedastic uncertainty. Then, we rank the importance of all modules to determine the specific layers that should be pruned to meet particular performance requirements. Furthermore, we develop a new group fine-tuning strategy to improve the inference efficiency of LLMs. Finally, we evaluate the proposed SAAP method on multiple LLMs across two common tasks, i.e., zero-shot classification and text generation. Experimental results show that our SAAP method outperforms several state-of-the-art baseline methods, achieving 2.17%, 2.37%, and 2.39% accuracy gains on LLaMA-7B, Vicuna-7B, and LLaMA-13B. Additionally, SAAP improves the token generation speed by 5%, showcasing its practical advantages in resource-constrained scenarios.




