# large language model
## XGrammar: Flexible and Efficient Structured Generation Engine for Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.15100v2
- **Authors**: ['Yixin Dong', 'Charlie F. Ruan', 'Yaxing Cai', 'Ruihang Lai', 'Ziyi Xu', 'Yilong Zhao', 'Tianqi Chen']
- **Abstrat**: The applications of LLM Agents are becoming increasingly complex and diverse, leading to a high demand for structured outputs that can be parsed into code, structured function calls, and embodied agent commands. These developments bring significant demands for structured generation in LLM inference. Context-free grammar is a flexible approach to enable structured generation via constrained decoding. However, executing context-free grammar requires going through several stack states over all tokens in vocabulary during runtime, bringing non-negligible overhead for structured generation. In this paper, we propose XGrammar, a flexible and efficient structure generation engine for large language models. XGrammar accelerates context-free grammar execution by dividing the vocabulary into context-independent tokens that can be prechecked and context-dependent tokens that need to be interpreted during runtime. We further build transformations to expand the grammar context and reduce the number of context-independent tokens. Additionally, we build an efficient persistent stack to accelerate the context-dependent token checks. Finally, we co-design the grammar engine with LLM inference engine to overlap grammar computation with GPU executions. Evaluation results show that XGrammar can achieve up to 100x speedup over existing solutions. Combined with an LLM inference engine, it can generate near-zero overhead structure generation in end-to-end low-LLM serving.





## Cross-modal Information Flow in Multimodal Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18620v1
- **Authors**: ['Zhi Zhang', 'Srishti Yadav', 'Fengze Han', 'Ekaterina Shutova']
- **Abstrat**: The recent advancements in auto-regressive multimodal large language models (MLLMs) have demonstrated promising progress for vision-language tasks. While there exists a variety of studies investigating the processing of linguistic information within large language models, little is currently known about the inner working mechanism of MLLMs and how linguistic and visual information interact within these models. In this study, we aim to fill this gap by examining the information flow between different modalities -- language and vision -- in MLLMs, focusing on visual question answering. Specifically, given an image-question pair as input, we investigate where in the model and how the visual and linguistic information are combined to generate the final prediction. Conducting experiments with a series of models from the LLaVA series, we find that there are two distinct stages in the process of integration of the two modalities. In the lower layers, the model first transfers the more general visual features of the whole image into the representations of (linguistic) question tokens. In the middle layers, it once again transfers visual information about specific objects relevant to the question to the respective token positions of the question. Finally, in the higher layers, the resulting multimodal representation is propagated to the last position of the input sequence for the final prediction. Overall, our findings provide a new and comprehensive perspective on the spatial and functional aspects of image and language processing in the MLLMs, thereby facilitating future research into multimodal information localization and editing.





## Diffusion Self-Distillation for Zero-Shot Customized Image Generation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18616v1
- **Authors**: ['Shengqu Cai', 'Eric Chan', 'Yunzhi Zhang', 'Leonidas Guibas', 'Jiajun Wu', 'Gordon Wetzstein']
- **Abstrat**: Text-to-image diffusion models produce impressive results but are frustrating tools for artists who desire fine-grained control. For example, a common use case is to create images of a specific instance in novel contexts, i.e., "identity-preserving generation". This setting, along with many other tasks (e.g., relighting), is a natural fit for image+text-conditional generative models. However, there is insufficient high-quality paired data to train such a model directly. We propose Diffusion Self-Distillation, a method for using a pre-trained text-to-image model to generate its own dataset for text-conditioned image-to-image tasks. We first leverage a text-to-image diffusion model's in-context generation ability to create grids of images and curate a large paired dataset with the help of a Visual-Language Model. We then fine-tune the text-to-image model into a text+image-to-image model using the curated paired dataset. We demonstrate that Diffusion Self-Distillation outperforms existing zero-shot methods and is competitive with per-instance tuning techniques on a wide range of identity-preservation generation tasks, without requiring test-time optimization.





## Automated Literature Review Using NLP Techniques and LLM-Based Retrieval-Augmented Generation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18583v1
- **Authors**: ['Nurshat Fateh Ali', 'Md. Mahdi Mohtasim', 'Shakil Mosharrof', 'T. Gopi Krishna']
- **Abstrat**: This research presents and compares multiple approaches to automate the generation of literature reviews using several Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) with a Large Language Model (LLM). The ever-increasing number of research articles provides a huge challenge for manual literature review. It has resulted in an increased demand for automation. Developing a system capable of automatically generating the literature reviews from only the PDF files as input is the primary objective of this research work. The effectiveness of several Natural Language Processing (NLP) strategies, such as the frequency-based method (spaCy), the transformer model (Simple T5), and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) with Large Language Model (GPT-3.5-turbo), is evaluated to meet the primary objective. The SciTLDR dataset is chosen for this research experiment and three distinct techniques are utilized to implement three different systems for auto-generating the literature reviews. The ROUGE scores are used for the evaluation of all three systems. Based on the evaluation, the Large Language Model GPT-3.5-turbo achieved the highest ROUGE-1 score, 0.364. The transformer model comes in second place and spaCy is at the last position. Finally, a graphical user interface is created for the best system based on the large language model.





## A Suite for Acoustic Language Model Evaluation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.07437v2
- **Authors**: ['Gallil Maimon', 'Amit Roth', 'Yossi Adi']
- **Abstrat**: Speech language models have recently demonstrated great potential as universal speech processing systems. Such models have the ability to model the rich acoustic information existing in audio signals, beyond spoken content, such as emotion, background noise, etc. Despite this, evaluation benchmarks which evaluate awareness to a wide range of acoustic aspects, are lacking. To help bridge this gap, we introduce SALMon, a novel evaluation suite encompassing background noise, emotion, speaker identity and room impulse response. The proposed benchmarks both evaluate the consistency of the inspected element and how much it matches the spoken text. We follow a modelling based approach, measuring whether a model gives correct samples higher scores than incorrect ones. This approach makes the benchmark fast to compute even for large models. We evaluated several speech language models on SALMon, thus highlighting the strengths and weaknesses of each evaluated method. We make the code and data publicly available at https://pages.cs.huji.ac.il/adiyoss-lab/salmon/ .





## Challenges in Adapting Multilingual LLMs to Low-Resource Languages using LoRA PEFT Tuning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18571v1
- **Authors**: ['Omkar Khade', 'Shruti Jagdale', 'Abhishek Phaltankar', 'Gauri Takalikar', 'Raviraj Joshi']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable multilingual capabilities, yet challenges persist in adapting these models for low-resource languages. In this study, we investigate the effects of Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT) on multilingual Gemma models for Marathi, a language with limited resources. Using a translated Alpaca dataset with 52,000 instruction-response pairs, our findings reveal that while evaluation metrics often show a performance decline post-fine-tuning, manual assessments frequently suggest that the fine-tuned models outperform their original counterparts. The observations indicate improvements in target language generation capabilities but a reduction in reasoning abilities following language adaptation. These results underscore the need for improved evaluation methodologies and the creation of high-quality native datasets to accurately assess language-specific model performance in low-resource settings.




