# large language model
## LLM2CLIP: Powerful Language Model Unlocks Richer Visual Representation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04997v3
- **Authors**: ['Weiquan Huang', 'Aoqi Wu', 'Yifan Yang', 'Xufang Luo', 'Yuqing Yang', 'Liang Hu', 'Qi Dai', 'Xiyang Dai', 'Dongdong Chen', 'Chong Luo', 'Lili Qiu']
- **Abstrat**: CLIP is a foundational multimodal model that aligns image and text features into a shared space using contrastive learning on large-scale image-text pairs. Its strength lies in leveraging natural language as a rich supervisory signal. With the rapid progress of large language models (LLMs), we explore their potential to further enhance CLIP's multimodal representation learning. This work introduces a fine-tuning approach that integrates LLMs with the pretrained CLIP visual encoder, leveraging LLMs' advanced text understanding and open-world knowledge to improve CLIP's ability to process long and complex captions. To address the challenge of LLMs' autoregressive nature, we propose a caption-to-caption contrastive learning framework to enhance the discriminative power of their outputs. Our method achieves substantial performance gains on various downstream tasks, demonstrating the effectiveness of combining LLMs with CLIP for enhanced multimodal learning.





## Adaptive Deployment of Untrusted LLMs Reduces Distributed Threats
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17693v1
- **Authors**: ['Jiaxin Wen', 'Vivek Hebbar', 'Caleb Larson', 'Aryan Bhatt', 'Ansh Radhakrishnan', 'Mrinank Sharma', 'Henry Sleight', 'Shi Feng', 'He He', 'Ethan Perez', 'Buck Shlegeris', 'Akbir Khan']
- **Abstrat**: As large language models (LLMs) become increasingly capable, it is prudent to assess whether safety measures remain effective even if LLMs intentionally try to bypass them. Previous work introduced control evaluations, an adversarial framework for testing deployment strategies of untrusted models (i.e., models which might be trying to bypass safety measures). While prior work treats a single failure as unacceptable, we perform control evaluations in a "distributed threat setting" -- a setting where no single action is catastrophic and no single action provides overwhelming evidence of misalignment. We approach this problem with a two-level deployment framework that uses an adaptive macro-protocol to choose between micro-protocols. Micro-protocols operate on a single task, using a less capable, but extensively tested (trusted) model to harness and monitor the untrusted model. Meanwhile, the macro-protocol maintains an adaptive credence on the untrusted model's alignment based on its past actions, using it to pick between safer and riskier micro-protocols. We evaluate our method in a code generation testbed where a red team attempts to generate subtly backdoored code with an LLM whose deployment is safeguarded by a blue team. We plot Pareto frontiers of safety (# of non-backdoored solutions) and usefulness (# of correct solutions). At a given level of usefulness, our adaptive deployment strategy reduces the number of backdoors by 80% compared to non-adaptive baselines.





## Low-Bit Quantization Favors Undertrained LLMs: Scaling Laws for Quantized LLMs with 100T Training Tokens
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17691v1
- **Authors**: ['Xu Ouyang', 'Tao Ge', 'Thomas Hartvigsen', 'Zhisong Zhang', 'Haitao Mi', 'Dong Yu']
- **Abstrat**: We reveal that low-bit quantization favors undertrained large language models (LLMs) by observing that models with larger sizes or fewer training tokens experience less quantization-induced degradation (QiD) when applying low-bit quantization, whereas smaller models with extensive training tokens suffer significant QiD. To gain deeper insights into this trend, we study over 1500 quantized LLM checkpoints of various sizes and at different training levels (undertrained or fully trained) in a controlled setting, deriving scaling laws for understanding the relationship between QiD and factors such as the number of training tokens, model size and bit width.   With the derived scaling laws, we propose a novel perspective that we can use QiD to measure an LLM's training levels and determine the number of training tokens required for fully training LLMs of various sizes. Moreover, we use the scaling laws to predict the quantization performance of different-sized LLMs trained with 100 trillion tokens. Our projection shows that the low-bit quantization performance of future models, which are expected to be trained with over 100 trillion tokens, may NOT be desirable. This poses a potential challenge for low-bit quantization in the future and highlights the need for awareness of a model's training level when evaluating low-bit quantization research. To facilitate future research on this problem, we release all the 1500+ quantized checkpoints used in this work at https://huggingface.co/Xu-Ouyang.





## Rethinking Token Reduction in MLLMs: Towards a Unified Paradigm for Training-Free Acceleration
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17686v1
- **Authors**: ['Yuhang Han', 'Xuyang Liu', 'Pengxiang Ding', 'Donglin Wang', 'Honggang Chen', 'Qingsen Yan', 'Siteng Huang']
- **Abstrat**: To accelerate the inference of heavy Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs), this study rethinks the current landscape of training-free token reduction research. We regret to find that the critical components of existing methods are tightly intertwined, with their interconnections and effects remaining unclear for comparison, transfer, and expansion. Therefore, we propose a unified ''filter-correlate-compress'' paradigm that decomposes the token reduction into three distinct stages within a pipeline, maintaining consistent design objectives and elements while allowing for unique implementations. We additionally demystify the popular works and subsume them into our paradigm to showcase its universality. Finally, we offer a suite of methods grounded in the paradigm, striking a balance between speed and accuracy throughout different phases of the inference. Experimental results across 10 benchmarks indicate that our methods can achieve up to an 82.4% reduction in FLOPs with a minimal impact on performance, simultaneously surpassing state-of-the-art training-free methods. Our project page is at https://ficoco-accelerate.github.io/.





## LOLA: LLM-Assisted Online Learning Algorithm for Content Experiments
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.02611v3
- **Authors**: ['Zikun Ye', 'Hema Yoganarasimhan', 'Yufeng Zheng']
- **Abstrat**: Modern media firms require automated and efficient methods to identify content that is most engaging and appealing to users. Leveraging a large-scale dataset from Upworthy (a news publisher), which includes 17,681 headline A/B tests, we first investigate the ability of three pure-LLM approaches to identify the catchiest headline: prompt-based methods, embedding-based methods, and fine-tuned open-source LLMs. Prompt-based approaches perform poorly, while both OpenAI-embedding-based models and the fine-tuned Llama-3-8B achieve marginally higher accuracy than random predictions. In sum, none of the pure-LLM-based methods can predict the best-performing headline with high accuracy. We then introduce the LLM-Assisted Online Learning Algorithm (LOLA), a novel framework that integrates Large Language Models (LLMs) with adaptive experimentation to optimize content delivery. LOLA combines the best pure-LLM approach with the Upper Confidence Bound algorithm to allocate traffic and maximize clicks adaptively. Our numerical experiments on Upworthy data show that LOLA outperforms the standard A/B test method (the current status quo at Upworthy), pure bandit algorithms, and pure-LLM approaches, particularly in scenarios with limited experimental traffic. Our approach is scalable and applicable to content experiments across various settings where firms seek to optimize user engagement, including digital advertising and social media recommendations.





## Enhancing Character-Level Understanding in LLMs through Token Internal Structure Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17679v1
- **Authors**: ['Zhu Xu', 'Zhiqiang Zhao', 'Zihan Zhang', 'Yuchi Liu', 'Quanwei Shen', 'Fei Liu', 'Yu Kuang']
- **Abstrat**: Tokenization techniques such as Byte-Pair Encoding (BPE) and Byte-Level BPE (BBPE) have significantly improved the computational efficiency and vocabulary representation stability of large language models (LLMs) by segmenting text into tokens. However, this segmentation often obscures the internal character structures and sequences within tokens, preventing models from fully learning these intricate details during training. Consequently, LLMs struggle to comprehend the character compositions and positional relationships within tokens, especially when fine-tuned on downstream tasks with limited data. In this paper, we introduce Token Internal Position Awareness (TIPA), a novel approach that enhances LLMs' understanding of internal token structures by training them on reverse character prediction tasks using the tokenizer's own vocabulary. This method enables models to effectively learn and generalize character positions and internal structures. Experimental results demonstrate that LLMs trained with TIPA outperform baseline models in predicting character positions at the token level. Furthermore, when applied to the downstream task of Chinese Spelling Correction (CSC), TIPA not only accelerates model convergence but also significantly improves task performance.





## Push the Limit of Multi-modal Emotion Recognition by Prompting LLMs with Receptive-Field-Aware Attention Weighting
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17674v1
- **Authors**: ['Liyun Zhang', 'Dian Ding', 'Yu Lu', 'Yi-Chao Chen', 'Guangtao Xue']
- **Abstrat**: Understanding the emotions in a dialogue usually requires external knowledge to accurately understand the contents. As the LLMs become more and more powerful, we do not want to settle on the limited ability of the pre-trained language model. However, the LLMs either can only process text modality or are too expensive to process the multimedia information. We aim to utilize both the power of LLMs and the supplementary features from the multimedia modalities. In this paper, we present a framework, Lantern, that can improve the performance of a certain vanilla model by prompting large language models with receptive-field-aware attention weighting. This framework trained a multi-task vanilla model to produce probabilities of emotion classes and dimension scores. These predictions are fed into the LLMs as references to adjust the predicted probabilities of each emotion class with its external knowledge and contextual understanding. We slice the dialogue into different receptive fields, and each sample is included in exactly t receptive fields. Finally, the predictions of LLMs are merged with a receptive-field-aware attention-driven weighting module. In the experiments, vanilla models CORECT and SDT are deployed in Lantern with GPT-4 or Llama-3.1-405B. The experiments in IEMOCAP with 4-way and 6-way settings demonstrated that the Lantern can significantly improve the performance of current vanilla models by up to 1.23% and 1.80%.





## SketchAgent: Language-Driven Sequential Sketch Generation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17673v1
- **Authors**: ['Yael Vinker', 'Tamar Rott Shaham', 'Kristine Zheng', 'Alex Zhao', 'Judith E Fan', 'Antonio Torralba']
- **Abstrat**: Sketching serves as a versatile tool for externalizing ideas, enabling rapid exploration and visual communication that spans various disciplines. While artificial systems have driven substantial advances in content creation and human-computer interaction, capturing the dynamic and abstract nature of human sketching remains challenging. In this work, we introduce SketchAgent, a language-driven, sequential sketch generation method that enables users to create, modify, and refine sketches through dynamic, conversational interactions. Our approach requires no training or fine-tuning. Instead, we leverage the sequential nature and rich prior knowledge of off-the-shelf multimodal large language models (LLMs). We present an intuitive sketching language, introduced to the model through in-context examples, enabling it to "draw" using string-based actions. These are processed into vector graphics and then rendered to create a sketch on a pixel canvas, which can be accessed again for further tasks. By drawing stroke by stroke, our agent captures the evolving, dynamic qualities intrinsic to sketching. We demonstrate that SketchAgent can generate sketches from diverse prompts, engage in dialogue-driven drawing, and collaborate meaningfully with human users.





## Synthetic Data Generation with LLM for Improved Depression Prediction
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17672v1
- **Authors**: ['Andrea Kang', 'Jun Yu Chen', 'Zoe Lee-Youngzie', 'Shuhao Fu']
- **Abstrat**: Automatic detection of depression is a rapidly growing field of research at the intersection of psychology and machine learning. However, with its exponential interest comes a growing concern for data privacy and scarcity due to the sensitivity of such a topic. In this paper, we propose a pipeline for Large Language Models (LLMs) to generate synthetic data to improve the performance of depression prediction models. Starting from unstructured, naturalistic text data from recorded transcripts of clinical interviews, we utilize an open-source LLM to generate synthetic data through chain-of-thought prompting. This pipeline involves two key steps: the first step is the generation of the synopsis and sentiment analysis based on the original transcript and depression score, while the second is the generation of the synthetic synopsis/sentiment analysis based on the summaries generated in the first step and a new depression score. Not only was the synthetic data satisfactory in terms of fidelity and privacy-preserving metrics, it also balanced the distribution of severity in the training dataset, thereby significantly enhancing the model's capability in predicting the intensity of the patient's depression. By leveraging LLMs to generate synthetic data that can be augmented to limited and imbalanced real-world datasets, we demonstrate a novel approach to addressing data scarcity and privacy concerns commonly faced in automatic depression detection, all while maintaining the statistical integrity of the original dataset. This approach offers a robust framework for future mental health research and applications.





## Toward High-Performance LLM Serving: A Simulation-Based Approach for Identifying Optimal Parallelism
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17651v1
- **Authors**: ['Yi-Chien Lin', 'Woosuk Kwon', 'Ronald Pineda', 'Fanny Nina Paravecino']
- **Abstrat**: Serving Large Language Models (LLMs) efficiently has become crucial. LLMs are often served with multiple devices using techniques like data, pipeline, and tensor parallelisms. Each parallelism presents trade-offs between computation, memory, and communication overhead, making it challenging to determine the optimal parallel execution plan. Moreover, input workloads also impact parallelism strategies. Tasks with long prompts like article summarization are compute-intensive, while tasks with long generation lengths like code generation are often memory-intensive; these differing characteristics result in distinct optimal execution plans. Since searching for the optimal plan via actual deployment is prohibitively expensive, we propose APEX, an LLM serving system simulator that efficiently identifies an optimal parallel execution plan. APEX captures the complex characteristics of iteration-level batching, a technique widely used in SOTA LLM serving systems. APEX leverages the repetitive structure of LLMs to reduce design space, maintaining a similar simulation overhead, even when scaling to trillion scale models. APEX supports a wide range of LLMs, device clusters, etc., and it can be easily extended through its high-level templates. We run APEX simulations using a CPU and evaluate the identified optimal plans using 8 H100 GPUs, encompassing a wide range of LLMs and input workloads. We show that APEX can find optimal execution plans that are up to 4.42x faster than heuristic plans in terms of end-to-end serving latency. APEX also reports a set of metrics used in LLM serving systems, such as time per output token and time to first token. Furthermore, APEX can identify an optimal parallel execution plan within 15 minutes using a CPU. This is 71x faster and 1234x more cost-effective than actual deployment on a GPU cluster using cloud services. APEX will be open-sourced upon acceptance.





## Evaluating Tokenizer Performance of Large Language Models Across Official Indian Languages
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.12240v2
- **Authors**: ['S. Tamang', 'D. J. Bora']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) based on transformer architectures have revolutionized a variety of domains, with tokenization playing a pivotal role in their pre-processing and fine-tuning stages. In multilingual models, particularly those tailored for Indic languages, effective tokenization is crucial for optimizing performance. This paper presents a comprehensive evaluation of tokenizers used by 12 LLMs across all 22 official languages of India, with a focus on comparing the efficiency of their tokenization processes. We employed the Normalized Sequence Length (NSL) as a key metric in our analysis. Our findings reveal that the SUTRA tokenizer outperforms all other models, including several Indic-specific models, excelling in 14 languages. Notable insights include the SUTRA tokenizer's superior handling of Indic languages, GPT-4o's advancement over its predecessor GPT-4 in processing Indian languages, and the limited performance of Project Indus in certain languages. This study underscores the critical importance of developing targeted tokenization strategies for multilingual and Indic-centric models, laying the groundwork for future improvements in tokenizer design to enhance linguistic coverage and model efficiency.




