# large language model
## The Limited Impact of Medical Adaptation of Large Language and Vision-Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.08870v1
- **Authors**: ['Daniel P. Jeong', 'Pranav Mani', 'Saurabh Garg', 'Zachary C. Lipton', 'Michael Oberst']
- **Abstrat**: Several recent works seek to develop foundation models specifically for medical applications, adapting general-purpose large language models (LLMs) and vision-language models (VLMs) via continued pretraining on publicly available biomedical corpora. These works typically claim that such domain-adaptive pretraining (DAPT) improves performance on downstream medical tasks, such as answering medical licensing exam questions. In this paper, we compare ten public "medical" LLMs and two VLMs against their corresponding base models, arriving at a different conclusion: all medical VLMs and nearly all medical LLMs fail to consistently improve over their base models in the zero-/few-shot prompting and supervised fine-tuning regimes for medical question-answering (QA). For instance, across all tasks and model pairs we consider in the 3-shot setting, medical LLMs only outperform their base models in 22.7% of cases, reach a (statistical) tie in 36.8% of cases, and are significantly worse than their base models in the remaining 40.5% of cases. Our conclusions are based on (i) comparing each medical model head-to-head, directly against the corresponding base model; (ii) optimizing the prompts for each model separately in zero-/few-shot prompting; and (iii) accounting for statistical uncertainty in comparisons. While these basic practices are not consistently adopted in the literature, our ablations show that they substantially impact conclusions. Meanwhile, we find that after fine-tuning on specific QA tasks, medical LLMs can show performance improvements, but the benefits do not carry over to tasks based on clinical notes. Our findings suggest that state-of-the-art general-domain models may already exhibit strong medical knowledge and reasoning capabilities, and offer recommendations to strengthen the conclusions of future studies.





## LLMStinger: Jailbreaking LLMs using RL fine-tuned LLMs
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.08862v1
- **Authors**: ['Piyush Jha', 'Arnav Arora', 'Vijay Ganesh']
- **Abstrat**: We introduce LLMStinger, a novel approach that leverages Large Language Models (LLMs) to automatically generate adversarial suffixes for jailbreak attacks. Unlike traditional methods, which require complex prompt engineering or white-box access, LLMStinger uses a reinforcement learning (RL) loop to fine-tune an attacker LLM, generating new suffixes based on existing attacks for harmful questions from the HarmBench benchmark. Our method significantly outperforms existing red-teaming approaches (we compared against 15 of the latest methods), achieving a +57.2% improvement in Attack Success Rate (ASR) on LLaMA2-7B-chat and a +50.3% ASR increase on Claude 2, both models known for their extensive safety measures. Additionally, we achieved a 94.97% ASR on GPT-3.5 and 99.4% on Gemma-2B-it, demonstrating the robustness and adaptability of LLMStinger across open and closed-source models.





## A Single Transformer for Scalable Vision-Language Modeling
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.06438v2
- **Authors**: ['Yangyi Chen', 'Xingyao Wang', 'Hao Peng', 'Heng Ji']
- **Abstrat**: We present SOLO, a single transformer for Scalable visiOn-Language mOdeling. Current large vision-language models (LVLMs) such as LLaVA mostly employ heterogeneous architectures that connect pre-trained visual encoders with large language models (LLMs) to facilitate visual recognition and complex reasoning. Although achieving remarkable performance with relatively lightweight training, we identify four primary scalability limitations: (1) The visual capacity is constrained by pre-trained visual encoders, which are typically an order of magnitude smaller than LLMs. (2) The heterogeneous architecture complicates the use of established hardware and software infrastructure. (3) Study of scaling laws on such architecture must consider three separate components - visual encoder, connector, and LLMs, which complicates the analysis. (4) The use of existing visual encoders typically requires following a pre-defined specification of image inputs pre-processing, for example, by reshaping inputs to fixed-resolution square images, which presents difficulties in processing and training on high-resolution images or those with unusual aspect ratio. A unified single Transformer architecture, like SOLO, effectively addresses these scalability concerns in LVLMs; however, its limited adoption in the modern context likely stems from the absence of reliable training recipes that balance both modalities and ensure stable training for billion-scale models. In this paper, we introduce the first open-source training recipe for developing SOLO, an open-source 7B LVLM using moderate academic resources. The training recipe involves initializing from LLMs, sequential pre-training on ImageNet and web-scale data, and instruction fine-tuning on our curated high-quality datasets. On extensive evaluation, SOLO demonstrates performance comparable to LLaVA-v1.5-7B, particularly excelling in visual mathematical reasoning.





## Multimodal Instruction Tuning with Hybrid State Space Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.08840v1
- **Authors**: ['Jianing Zhou', 'Han Li', 'Shuai Zhang', 'Ning Xie', 'Ruijie Wang', 'Xiaohan Nie', 'Sheng Liu', 'Lingyun Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Handling lengthy context is crucial for enhancing the recognition and understanding capabilities of multimodal large language models (MLLMs) in applications such as processing high-resolution images or high frame rate videos. The rise in image resolution and frame rate substantially increases computational demands due to the increased number of input tokens. This challenge is further exacerbated by the quadratic complexity with respect to sequence length of the self-attention mechanism. Most prior works either pre-train models with long contexts, overlooking the efficiency problem, or attempt to reduce the context length via downsampling (e.g., identify the key image patches or frames) to decrease the context length, which may result in information loss. To circumvent this issue while keeping the remarkable effectiveness of MLLMs, we propose a novel approach using a hybrid transformer-MAMBA model to efficiently handle long contexts in multimodal applications. Our multimodal model can effectively process long context input exceeding 100k tokens, outperforming existing models across various benchmarks. Remarkably, our model enhances inference efficiency for high-resolution images and high-frame-rate videos by about 4 times compared to current models, with efficiency gains increasing as image resolution or video frames rise. Furthermore, our model is the first to be trained on low-resolution images or low-frame-rate videos while being capable of inference on high-resolution images and high-frame-rate videos, offering flexibility for inference in diverse scenarios.




