# large language model
## Delve into Visual Contrastive Decoding for Hallucination Mitigation of Large Vision-Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.06775v1
- **Authors**: ['Yi-Lun Lee', 'Yi-Hsuan Tsai', 'Wei-Chen Chiu']
- **Abstrat**: While large vision-language models (LVLMs) have shown impressive capabilities in generating plausible responses correlated with input visual contents, they still suffer from hallucinations, where the generated text inaccurately reflects visual contents. To address this, recent approaches apply contrastive decoding to calibrate the model's response via contrasting output distributions with original and visually distorted samples, demonstrating promising hallucination mitigation in a training-free manner. However, the potential of changing information in visual inputs is not well-explored, so a deeper investigation into the behaviors of visual contrastive decoding is of great interest. In this paper, we first explore various methods for contrastive decoding to change visual contents, including image downsampling and editing. Downsampling images reduces the detailed textual information while editing yields new contents in images, providing new aspects as visual contrastive samples. To further study benefits by using different contrastive samples, we analyze probability-level metrics, including entropy and distribution distance. Interestingly, the effect of these samples in mitigating hallucinations varies a lot across LVLMs and benchmarks. Based on our analysis, we propose a simple yet effective method to combine contrastive samples, offering a practical solution for applying contrastive decoding across various scenarios. Extensive experiments are conducted to validate the proposed fusion method among different benchmarks.





## Training Large Language Models to Reason in a Continuous Latent Space
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.06769v1
- **Authors**: ['Shibo Hao', 'Sainbayar Sukhbaatar', 'DiJia Su', 'Xian Li', 'Zhiting Hu', 'Jason Weston', 'Yuandong Tian']
- **Abstrat**: Large language models (LLMs) are restricted to reason in the "language space", where they typically express the reasoning process with a chain-of-thought (CoT) to solve a complex reasoning problem. However, we argue that language space may not always be optimal for reasoning. For example, most word tokens are primarily for textual coherence and not essential for reasoning, while some critical tokens require complex planning and pose huge challenges to LLMs. To explore the potential of LLM reasoning in an unrestricted latent space instead of using natural language, we introduce a new paradigm Coconut (Chain of Continuous Thought). We utilize the last hidden state of the LLM as a representation of the reasoning state (termed "continuous thought"). Rather than decoding this into a word token, we feed it back to the LLM as the subsequent input embedding directly in the continuous space. Experiments show that Coconut can effectively augment the LLM on several reasoning tasks. This novel latent reasoning paradigm leads to emergent advanced reasoning patterns: the continuous thought can encode multiple alternative next reasoning steps, allowing the model to perform a breadth-first search (BFS) to solve the problem, rather than prematurely committing to a single deterministic path like CoT. Coconut outperforms CoT in certain logical reasoning tasks that require substantial backtracking during planning, with fewer thinking tokens during inference. These findings demonstrate the promise of latent reasoning and offer valuable insights for future research.





## From Concept to Manufacturing: Evaluating Vision-Language Models for Engineering Design
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.12668v3
- **Authors**: ['Cyril Picard', 'Kristen M. Edwards', 'Anna C. Doris', 'Brandon Man', 'Giorgio Giannone', 'Md Ferdous Alam', 'Faez Ahmed']
- **Abstrat**: Engineering design is undergoing a transformative shift with the advent of AI, marking a new era in how we approach product, system, and service planning. Large language models have demonstrated impressive capabilities in enabling this shift. Yet, with text as their only input modality, they cannot leverage the large body of visual artifacts that engineers have used for centuries and are accustomed to. This gap is addressed with the release of multimodal vision-language models (VLMs), such as GPT-4V, enabling AI to impact many more types of tasks. Our work presents a comprehensive evaluation of VLMs across a spectrum of engineering design tasks, categorized into four main areas: Conceptual Design, System-Level and Detailed Design, Manufacturing and Inspection, and Engineering Education Tasks. Specifically in this paper, we assess the capabilities of two VLMs, GPT-4V and LLaVA 1.6 34B, in design tasks such as sketch similarity analysis, CAD generation, topology optimization, manufacturability assessment, and engineering textbook problems. Through this structured evaluation, we not only explore VLMs' proficiency in handling complex design challenges but also identify their limitations in complex engineering design applications. Our research establishes a foundation for future assessments of vision language models. It also contributes a set of benchmark testing datasets, with more than 1000 queries, for ongoing advancements and applications in this field.





## Why Do Developers Engage with ChatGPT in Issue-Tracker? Investigating Usage and Reliance on ChatGPT-Generated Code
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.06757v1
- **Authors**: ['Joy Krishan Das', 'Saikat Mondal', 'Chanchal K. Roy']
- **Abstrat**: Large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT have shown the potential to assist developers with coding and debugging tasks. However, their role in collaborative issue resolution is underexplored. In this study, we analyzed 1,152 Developer-ChatGPT conversations across 1,012 issues in GitHub to examine the diverse usage of ChatGPT and reliance on its generated code. Our contributions are fourfold. First, we manually analyzed 289 conversations to understand ChatGPT's usage in the GitHub Issues. Our analysis revealed that ChatGPT is primarily utilized for ideation, whereas its usage for validation (e.g., code documentation accuracy) is minimal. Second, we applied BERTopic modeling to identify key areas of engagement on the entire dataset. We found that backend issues (e.g., API management) dominate conversations, while testing is surprisingly less covered. Third, we utilized the CPD clone detection tool to check if the code generated by ChatGPT was used to address issues. Our findings revealed that ChatGPT-generated code was used as-is to resolve only 5.83\% of the issues. Fourth, we estimated sentiment using a RoBERTa-based sentiment analysis model to determine developers' satisfaction with different usages and engagement areas. We found positive sentiment (i.e., high satisfaction) about using ChatGPT for refactoring and addressing data analytics (e.g., categorizing table data) issues. On the contrary, we observed negative sentiment when using ChatGPT to debug issues and address automation tasks (e.g., GUI interactions). Our findings show the unmet needs and growing dissatisfaction among developers. Researchers and ChatGPT developers should focus on developing task-specific solutions that help resolve diverse issues, improving user satisfaction and problem-solving efficiency in software development.





## ZS4C: Zero-Shot Synthesis of Compilable Code for Incomplete Code Snippets using LLMs
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14279v3
- **Authors**: ['Azmain Kabir', 'Shaowei Wang', 'Yuan Tian', 'Tse-Hsun Chen', 'Muhammad Asaduzzaman', 'Wenbin Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: Technical Q&A sites are valuable for software developers seeking knowledge, but the code snippets they provide are often uncompilable and incomplete due to unresolved types and missing libraries. This poses a challenge for users who wish to reuse or analyze these snippets. Existing methods either do not focus on creating compilable code or have low success rates. To address this, we propose ZS4C, a lightweight approach for zero-shot synthesis of compilable code from incomplete snippets using Large Language Models (LLMs). ZS4C operates in two stages: first, it uses an LLM, like GPT-3.5, to identify missing import statements in a snippet; second, it collaborates with a validator (e.g., compiler) to fix compilation errors caused by incorrect imports and syntax issues. We evaluated ZS4C on the StatType-SO benchmark and a new dataset, Python-SO, which includes 539 Python snippets from Stack Overflow across the 20 most popular Python libraries. ZS4C significantly outperforms existing methods, improving the compilation rate from 63% to 95.1% compared to the state-of-the-art SnR, marking a 50.1% improvement. On average, ZS4C can infer more accurate import statements (with an F1 score of 0.98) than SnR, with an improvement of 8.5% in the F1.





## JAPAGEN: Efficient Few/Zero-shot Learning via Japanese Training Dataset Generation with LLM
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.06738v1
- **Authors**: ['Takuro Fujii', 'Satoru Katsumata']
- **Abstrat**: Recently some studies have highlighted the potential of Large Language Models (LLMs) as effective generators of supervised training data, offering advantages such as enhanced inference efficiency and reduced costs associated with data collection. However, these studies have predominantly focused on English language tasks. In this paper, we address the fundamental research question: Can LLMs serve as proficient training data generators for other language tasks? Specifically, we leverage LLMs to synthesize supervised training data under few-shot and zero-shot learning scenarios across six diverse Japanese downstream tasks. Subsequently, we utilize this synthesized data to train compact models (e.g., BERT). This novel methodology is termed JAPAGEN. Our experimental findings underscore that JAPAGEN achieves robust performance in classification tasks that necessitate formal text inputs, demonstrating competitive results compared to conventional LLM prompting strategies.





## How Many Languages Make Good Multilingual Instruction Tuning? A Case Study on BLOOM
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.04850v2
- **Authors**: ['Shaoxiong Ji', 'Pinzhen Chen']
- **Abstrat**: Instruction tuning a large language model with multiple languages can prepare it for multilingual downstream tasks. Nonetheless, it is yet to be determined whether having a handful of languages is sufficient, or whether the benefits increase with the inclusion of more. By fine-tuning large multilingual models on 1 to 52 languages, we present a case study on BLOOM to understand three pertinent factors affecting performance: the number of languages, language exposure, and similarity between training and test languages. Overall we found that 1) expanding language coverage in multilingual instruction tuning proves to be beneficial; 2) accuracy often significantly boots if the test language appears in the instruction mixture; 3) languages' genetic features correlate with cross-lingual transfer more than merely the number of language but different languages benefit to various degrees.





## OW-VISCapTor: Abstractors for Open-World Video Instance Segmentation and Captioning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.03657v2
- **Authors**: ['Anwesa Choudhuri', 'Girish Chowdhary', 'Alexander G. Schwing']
- **Abstrat**: We propose the new task 'open-world video instance segmentation and captioning'. It requires to detect, segment, track and describe with rich captions never before seen objects. This challenging task can be addressed by developing "abstractors" which connect a vision model and a language foundation model. Concretely, we connect a multi-scale visual feature extractor and a large language model (LLM) by developing an object abstractor and an object-to-text abstractor. The object abstractor, consisting of a prompt encoder and transformer blocks, introduces spatially-diverse open-world object queries to discover never before seen objects in videos. An inter-query contrastive loss further encourages the diversity of object queries. The object-to-text abstractor is augmented with masked cross-attention and acts as a bridge between the object queries and a frozen LLM to generate rich and descriptive object-centric captions for each detected object. Our generalized approach surpasses the baseline that jointly addresses the tasks of open-world video instance segmentation and dense video object captioning by 13% on never before seen objects, and by 10% on object-centric captions.





## AutoDCWorkflow: LLM-based Data Cleaning Workflow Auto-Generation and Benchmark
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.06724v1
- **Authors**: ['Lan Li', 'Liri Fang', 'Vetle I. Torvik']
- **Abstrat**: We investigate the reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs) for automatically generating data-cleaning workflows. To evaluate LLMs' ability to complete data-cleaning tasks, we implemented a pipeline for LLM-based Auto Data Cleaning Workflow (AutoDCWorkflow), prompting LLMs on data cleaning operations to repair three types of data quality issues: duplicates, missing values, and inconsistent data formats. Given a dirty table and a purpose (expressed as a query), this pipeline generates a minimal, clean table sufficient to address the purpose and the data cleaning workflow used to produce the table. The planning process involves three main LLM-driven components: (1) Select Target Columns: Identifies a set of target columns related to the purpose. (2) Inspect Column Quality: Assesses the data quality for each target column and generates a Data Quality Report as operation objectives. (3) Generate Operation & Arguments: Predicts the next operation and arguments based on the data quality report results. Additionally, we propose a data cleaning benchmark to evaluate the capability of LLM agents to automatically generate workflows that address data cleaning purposes of varying difficulty levels. The benchmark comprises the annotated datasets as a collection of purpose, raw table, clean table, data cleaning workflow, and answer set. In our experiments, we evaluated three LLMs that auto-generate purpose-driven data cleaning workflows. The results indicate that LLMs perform well in planning and generating data-cleaning workflows without the need for fine-tuning.




