# large language model
## Distributed Mixture-of-Agents for Edge Inference with Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.21200v1
- **Authors**: ['Purbesh Mitra', 'Priyanka Kaswan', 'Sennur Ulukus']
- **Abstrat**: Mixture-of-Agents (MoA) has recently been proposed as a method to enhance performance of large language models (LLMs), enabling multiple individual LLMs to work together for collaborative inference. This collaborative approach results in improved responses to user prompts compared to relying on a single LLM. In this paper, we consider such an MoA architecture in a distributed setting, where LLMs operate on individual edge devices, each uniquely associated with a user and equipped with its own distributed computing power. These devices exchange information using decentralized gossip algorithms, allowing different device nodes to talk without the supervision of a centralized server. In the considered setup, different users have their own LLM models to address user prompts. Additionally, the devices gossip either their own user-specific prompts or augmented prompts to generate more refined answers to certain queries. User prompts are temporarily stored in the device queues when their corresponding LLMs are busy. Given the memory limitations of edge devices, it is crucial to ensure that the average queue sizes in the system remain bounded. In this paper, we address this by theoretically calculating the queuing stability conditions for the device queues under reasonable assumptions, which we validate experimentally as well. Further, we demonstrate through experiments, leveraging open-source LLMs for the implementation of distributed MoA, that certain MoA configurations produce higher-quality responses compared to others, as evaluated on AlpacaEval 2.0 benchmark. The implementation is available at: https://github.com/purbeshmitra/distributed_moa.





## Order Matters in Hallucination: Reasoning Order as Benchmark and Reflexive Prompting for Large-Language-Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.05093v3
- **Authors**: ['Zikai Xie']
- **Abstrat**: Large language models (LLMs) have generated significant attention since their inception, finding applications across various academic and industrial domains. However, these models often suffer from the "hallucination problem", where outputs, though grammatically and logically coherent, lack factual accuracy or are entirely fabricated. A particularly troubling issue discovered and widely discussed recently is the numerical comparison error where multiple LLMs incorrectly infer that "9.11$>$9.9". We discovered that the order in which LLMs generate answers and reasoning impacts their consistency. Specifically, results vary significantly when an LLM generates an answer first and then provides the reasoning versus generating the reasoning process first and then the conclusion. Inspired by this, we propose a new benchmark method for assessing LLM consistency: comparing responses generated through these two different approaches. This benchmark effectively identifies instances where LLMs fabricate answers and subsequently generate justifications. Furthermore, we introduce a novel and straightforward prompt strategy designed to mitigate this issue. Experimental results demonstrate that this strategy improves performance across various LLMs compared to direct questioning. This work not only sheds light on a critical flaw in LLMs but also offers a practical solution to enhance their reliability.





## Facilitating large language model Russian adaptation with Learned Embedding Propagation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.21140v1
- **Authors**: ['Mikhail Tikhomirov', 'Daniil Chernyshev']
- **Abstrat**: Rapid advancements of large language model (LLM) technologies led to the introduction of powerful open-source instruction-tuned LLMs that have the same text generation quality as the state-of-the-art counterparts such as GPT-4. While the emergence of such models accelerates the adoption of LLM technologies in sensitive-information environments the authors of such models don not disclose the training data necessary for replication of the results thus making the achievements model-exclusive. Since those open-source models are also multilingual this in turn reduces the benefits of training a language specific LLMs as improved inference computation efficiency becomes the only guaranteed advantage of such costly procedure. More cost-efficient options such as vocabulary extension and subsequent continued pre-training are also inhibited by the lack of access to high-quality instruction-tuning data since it is the major factor behind the resulting LLM task-solving capabilities. To address the limitations and cut the costs of the language adaptation pipeline we propose Learned Embedding Propagation (LEP). Unlike existing approaches our method has lower training data size requirements due to minimal impact on existing LLM knowledge which we reinforce using novel ad-hoc embedding propagation procedure that allows to skip the instruction-tuning step and instead implant the new language knowledge directly into any existing instruct-tuned variant. We evaluated four Russian vocabulary adaptations for LLaMa-3-8B and Mistral-7B, showing that LEP is competitive with traditional instruction-tuning methods, achieving performance comparable to OpenChat 3.5 and LLaMa-3-8B-Instruct, with further improvements via self-calibration and continued tuning enhancing task-solving capabilities.




