# large language model
## Aguvis: Unified Pure Vision Agents for Autonomous GUI Interaction
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04454v1
- **Authors**: ['Yiheng Xu', 'Zekun Wang', 'Junli Wang', 'Dunjie Lu', 'Tianbao Xie', 'Amrita Saha', 'Doyen Sahoo', 'Tao Yu', 'Caiming Xiong']
- **Abstrat**: Graphical User Interfaces (GUIs) are critical to human-computer interaction, yet automating GUI tasks remains challenging due to the complexity and variability of visual environments. Existing approaches often rely on textual representations of GUIs, which introduce limitations in generalization, efficiency, and scalability. In this paper, we introduce Aguvis, a unified pure vision-based framework for autonomous GUI agents that operates across various platforms. Our approach leverages image-based observations, and grounding instructions in natural language to visual elements, and employs a consistent action space to ensure cross-platform generalization. To address the limitations of previous work, we integrate explicit planning and reasoning within the model, enhancing its ability to autonomously navigate and interact with complex digital environments. We construct a large-scale dataset of GUI agent trajectories, incorporating multimodal reasoning and grounding, and employ a two-stage training pipeline that first focuses on general GUI grounding, followed by planning and reasoning. Through comprehensive experiments, we demonstrate that Aguvis surpasses previous state-of-the-art methods in both offline and real-world online scenarios, achieving, to our knowledge, the first fully autonomous pure vision GUI agent capable of performing tasks independently without collaboration with external closed-source models. We open-sourced all datasets, models, and training recipes to facilitate future research at https://aguvis-project.github.io/.





## p-MoD: Building Mixture-of-Depths MLLMs via Progressive Ratio Decay
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04449v1
- **Authors**: ['Jun Zhang', 'Desen Meng', 'Ji Qi', 'Zhenpeng Huang', 'Tao Wu', 'Limin Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Despite the remarkable performance of multimodal large language models (MLLMs) across diverse tasks, the substantial training and inference costs impede their advancement. The majority of computation stems from the overwhelming volume of vision tokens processed by the transformer decoder. In this paper, we propose to build efficient MLLMs by leveraging the Mixture-of-Depths (MoD) mechanism, where each transformer decoder layer selects essential vision tokens to process while skipping redundant ones. However, integrating MoD into MLLMs is non-trivial. To address the challenges of training and inference stability as well as limited training data, we adapt the MoD module with two novel designs: tanh-gated weight normalization (TanhNorm) and symmetric token reweighting (STRing). Moreover, we observe that vision tokens exhibit higher redundancy in deeper layer and thus design a progressive ratio decay (PRD) strategy, which gradually reduces the token retention ratio layer by layer, employing a shifted cosine schedule. This crucial design fully unleashes the potential of MoD, significantly boosting the efficiency and performance of our models. To validate the effectiveness of our approach, we conduct extensive experiments with two baseline models across 14 benchmarks. Our model, p-MoD, matches or even surpasses the performance of the baseline models, with only 55.6% TFLOPs and 53.8% KV cache storage during inference, and 77.7% GPU hours during training.





## The Semantic Hub Hypothesis: Language Models Share Semantic Representations Across Languages and Modalities
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04986v2
- **Authors**: ['Zhaofeng Wu', 'Xinyan Velocity Yu', 'Dani Yogatama', 'Jiasen Lu', 'Yoon Kim']
- **Abstrat**: Modern language models can process inputs across diverse languages and modalities. We hypothesize that models acquire this capability through learning a shared representation space across heterogeneous data types (e.g., different languages and modalities), which places semantically similar inputs near one another, even if they are from different modalities/languages. We term this the semantic hub hypothesis, following the hub-and-spoke model from neuroscience (Patterson et al., 2007) which posits that semantic knowledge in the human brain is organized through a transmodal semantic "hub" which integrates information from various modality-specific "spokes" regions. We first show that model representations for semantically equivalent inputs in different languages are similar in the intermediate layers, and that this space can be interpreted using the model's dominant pretraining language via the logit lens. This tendency extends to other data types, including arithmetic expressions, code, and visual/audio inputs. Interventions in the shared representation space in one data type also predictably affect model outputs in other data types, suggesting that this shared representations space is not simply a vestigial byproduct of large-scale training on broad data, but something that is actively utilized by the model during input processing.





## EgoPlan-Bench2: A Benchmark for Multimodal Large Language Model Planning in Real-World Scenarios
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04447v1
- **Authors**: ['Lu Qiu', 'Yuying Ge', 'Yi Chen', 'Yixiao Ge', 'Ying Shan', 'Xihui Liu']
- **Abstrat**: The advent of Multimodal Large Language Models, leveraging the power of Large Language Models, has recently demonstrated superior multimodal understanding and reasoning abilities, heralding a new era for artificial general intelligence. However, achieving AGI necessitates more than just comprehension and reasoning. A crucial capability required is effective planning in diverse scenarios, which involves making reasonable decisions based on complex environments to solve real-world problems. Despite its importance, the planning abilities of current MLLMs in varied scenarios remain underexplored. In this paper, we introduce EgoPlan-Bench2, a rigorous and comprehensive benchmark designed to assess the planning capabilities of MLLMs across a wide range of real-world scenarios. EgoPlan-Bench2 encompasses everyday tasks spanning 4 major domains and 24 detailed scenarios, closely aligned with human daily life. EgoPlan-Bench2 is constructed through a semi-automatic process utilizing egocentric videos, complemented by manual verification. Grounded in a first-person perspective, it mirrors the way humans approach problem-solving in everyday life. We evaluate 21 competitive MLLMs and provide an in-depth analysis of their limitations, revealing that they face significant challenges in real-world planning. To further improve the planning proficiency of current MLLMs, we propose a training-free approach using multimodal Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting through investigating the effectiveness of various multimodal prompts in complex planning. Our approach enhances the performance of GPT-4V by 10.24 on EgoPlan-Bench2 without additional training. Our work not only sheds light on the current limitations of MLLMs in planning, but also provides insights for future enhancements in this critical area. We have made data and code available at https://qiulu66.github.io/egoplanbench2/.





## Moto: Latent Motion Token as the Bridging Language for Robot Manipulation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04445v1
- **Authors**: ['Yi Chen', 'Yuying Ge', 'Yizhuo Li', 'Yixiao Ge', 'Mingyu Ding', 'Ying Shan', 'Xihui Liu']
- **Abstrat**: Recent developments in Large Language Models pre-trained on extensive corpora have shown significant success in various natural language processing tasks with minimal fine-tuning. This success offers new promise for robotics, which has long been constrained by the high cost of action-labeled data. We ask: given the abundant video data containing interaction-related knowledge available as a rich "corpus", can a similar generative pre-training approach be effectively applied to enhance robot learning? The key challenge is to identify an effective representation for autoregressive pre-training that benefits robot manipulation tasks. Inspired by the way humans learn new skills through observing dynamic environments, we propose that effective robotic learning should emphasize motion-related knowledge, which is closely tied to low-level actions and is hardware-agnostic, facilitating the transfer of learned motions to actual robot actions. To this end, we introduce Moto, which converts video content into latent Motion Token sequences by a Latent Motion Tokenizer, learning a bridging "language" of motion from videos in an unsupervised manner. We pre-train Moto-GPT through motion token autoregression, enabling it to capture diverse visual motion knowledge. After pre-training, Moto-GPT demonstrates the promising ability to produce semantically interpretable motion tokens, predict plausible motion trajectories, and assess trajectory rationality through output likelihood. To transfer learned motion priors to real robot actions, we implement a co-fine-tuning strategy that seamlessly bridges latent motion token prediction and real robot control. Extensive experiments show that the fine-tuned Moto-GPT exhibits superior robustness and efficiency on robot manipulation benchmarks, underscoring its effectiveness in transferring knowledge from video data to downstream visual manipulation tasks.





## Divot: Diffusion Powers Video Tokenizer for Comprehension and Generation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04432v1
- **Authors**: ['Yuying Ge', 'Yizhuo Li', 'Yixiao Ge', 'Ying Shan']
- **Abstrat**: In recent years, there has been a significant surge of interest in unifying image comprehension and generation within Large Language Models (LLMs). This growing interest has prompted us to explore extending this unification to videos. The core challenge lies in developing a versatile video tokenizer that captures both the spatial characteristics and temporal dynamics of videos to obtain representations for LLMs, and the representations can be further decoded into realistic video clips to enable video generation. In this work, we introduce Divot, a Diffusion-Powered Video Tokenizer, which leverages the diffusion process for self-supervised video representation learning. We posit that if a video diffusion model can effectively de-noise video clips by taking the features of a video tokenizer as the condition, then the tokenizer has successfully captured robust spatial and temporal information. Additionally, the video diffusion model inherently functions as a de-tokenizer, decoding videos from their representations. Building upon the Divot tokenizer, we present Divot-Vicuna through video-to-text autoregression and text-to-video generation by modeling the distributions of continuous-valued Divot features with a Gaussian Mixture Model. Experimental results demonstrate that our diffusion-based video tokenizer, when integrated with a pre-trained LLM, achieves competitive performance across various video comprehension and generation benchmarks. The instruction tuned Divot-Vicuna also excels in video storytelling, generating interleaved narratives and corresponding videos.





## Grounding Descriptions in Images informs Zero-Shot Visual Recognition
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04429v1
- **Authors**: ['Shaunak Halbe', 'Junjiao Tian', 'K J Joseph', 'James Seale Smith', 'Katherine Stevo', 'Vineeth N Balasubramanian', 'Zsolt Kira']
- **Abstrat**: Vision-language models (VLMs) like CLIP have been cherished for their ability to perform zero-shot visual recognition on open-vocabulary concepts. This is achieved by selecting the object category whose textual representation bears the highest similarity with the query image. While successful in some domains, this method struggles with identifying fine-grained entities as well as generalizing to unseen concepts that are not captured by the training distribution. Recent works attempt to mitigate these challenges by integrating category descriptions at test time, albeit yielding modest improvements. We attribute these limited gains to a fundamental misalignment between image and description representations, which is rooted in the pretraining structure of CLIP. In this paper, we propose GRAIN, a new pretraining strategy aimed at aligning representations at both fine and coarse levels simultaneously. Our approach learns to jointly ground textual descriptions in image regions along with aligning overarching captions with global image representations. To drive this pre-training, we leverage frozen Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) to derive large-scale synthetic annotations. We demonstrate the enhanced zero-shot performance of our model compared to current state-of-the art methods across 11 diverse image classification datasets. Additionally, we introduce Products-2023, a newly curated, manually labeled dataset featuring novel concepts, and showcase our model's ability to recognize these concepts by benchmarking on it. Significant improvements achieved by our model on other downstream tasks like retrieval further highlight the superior quality of representations learned by our approach. Code available at https://github.com/shaunak27/grain-clip .





## Florence-VL: Enhancing Vision-Language Models with Generative Vision Encoder and Depth-Breadth Fusion
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04424v1
- **Authors**: ['Jiuhai Chen', 'Jianwei Yang', 'Haiping Wu', 'Dianqi Li', 'Jianfeng Gao', 'Tianyi Zhou', 'Bin Xiao']
- **Abstrat**: We present Florence-VL, a new family of multimodal large language models (MLLMs) with enriched visual representations produced by Florence-2, a generative vision foundation model. Unlike the widely used CLIP-style vision transformer trained by contrastive learning, Florence-2 can capture different levels and aspects of visual features, which are more versatile to be adapted to diverse downstream tasks. We propose a novel feature-fusion architecture and an innovative training recipe that effectively integrates Florence-2's visual features into pretrained LLMs, such as Phi 3.5 and LLama 3. In particular, we propose "depth-breath fusion (DBFusion)" to fuse the visual features extracted from different depths and under multiple prompts. Our model training is composed of end-to-end pretraining of the whole model followed by finetuning of the projection layer and the LLM, on a carefully designed recipe of diverse open-source datasets that include high-quality image captions and instruction-tuning pairs. Our quantitative analysis and visualization of Florence-VL's visual features show its advantages over popular vision encoders on vision-language alignment, where the enriched depth and breath play important roles. Florence-VL achieves significant improvements over existing state-of-the-art MLLMs across various multi-modal and vision-centric benchmarks covering general VQA, perception, hallucination, OCR, Chart, knowledge-intensive understanding, etc. To facilitate future research, our models and the complete training recipe are open-sourced. https://github.com/JiuhaiChen/Florence-VL





## SmallToLarge (S2L): Scalable Data Selection for Fine-tuning Large Language Models by Summarizing Training Trajectories of Small Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.07384v2
- **Authors**: ['Yu Yang', 'Siddhartha Mishra', 'Jeffrey N Chiang', 'Baharan Mirzasoleiman']
- **Abstrat**: Despite the effectiveness of data selection for large language models (LLMs) during pretraining and instruction fine-tuning phases, improving data efficiency in supervised fine-tuning (SFT) for specialized domains poses significant challenges due to the complexity of fine-tuning data. To bridge this gap, we introduce an effective and scalable data selection method for SFT, SmallToLarge (S2L), which leverages training trajectories from small models to guide the data selection for larger models. We demonstrate through extensive experiments that S2L significantly improves data efficiency in SFT for mathematical problem-solving, reducing the training data to just 11% of the original MathInstruct dataset (Yue et al., 2023) to match full dataset performance while outperforming state-of-the-art data selection algorithms by an average of 4.7% across 6 in- and out-domain evaluation datasets. Remarkably, selecting only 50K data for SFT, S2L achieves a 32.7% accuracy on the most challenging MATH (Hendrycks et al., 2021) benchmark, improving Phi-2 (Li et al., 2023b) by 16.6%. In clinical text summarization on the MIMIC-III dataset (Johnson et al., 2016), S2L again outperforms training on the full dataset using only 50% of the data. Notably, S2L can perform data selection using a reference model 40x smaller than the target model, proportionally reducing the cost of data selection.





## Targeting the Core: A Simple and Effective Method to Attack RAG-based Agents via Direct LLM Manipulation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04415v1
- **Authors**: ['Xuying Li', 'Zhuo Li', 'Yuji Kosuga', 'Yasuhiro Yoshida', 'Victor Bian']
- **Abstrat**: AI agents, powered by large language models (LLMs), have transformed human-computer interactions by enabling seamless, natural, and context-aware communication. While these advancements offer immense utility, they also inherit and amplify inherent safety risks such as bias, fairness, hallucinations, privacy breaches, and a lack of transparency. This paper investigates a critical vulnerability: adversarial attacks targeting the LLM core within AI agents. Specifically, we test the hypothesis that a deceptively simple adversarial prefix, such as \textit{Ignore the document}, can compel LLMs to produce dangerous or unintended outputs by bypassing their contextual safeguards. Through experimentation, we demonstrate a high attack success rate (ASR), revealing the fragility of existing LLM defenses. These findings emphasize the urgent need for robust, multi-layered security measures tailored to mitigate vulnerabilities at the LLM level and within broader agent-based architectures.





## WaveletGPT: Wavelets Meet Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.12924v3
- **Authors**: ['Prateek Verma']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) have ushered in a new wave of artificial intelligence advancements impacting every scientific field and discipline. They are trained on a simple objective: to predict the next token given the previous context. We live in a world where most of the data around us, e.g., text, audio, and music, has a multi-scale structure associated with it. This paper infuses LLMs with traditional signal processing ideas, namely wavelets, during pre-training to take advantage of the structure. Without adding \textbf{any extra parameters} to a GPT-style LLM architecture, we achieve the same pre-training performance almost twice as fast in text, raw audio, and symbolic music. This is achieved by imposing a structure on intermediate embeddings. When trained for the same number of training steps, we achieve significant gains in performance, which is comparable to pre-training a larger neural architecture. Our architecture allows every next token prediction access to intermediate embeddings at different temporal resolutions in every Transformer decoder block. This work will hopefully pave the way for incorporating multi-rate signal processing ideas into traditional LLM pre-training. Further, we showcase pushing model performance by improving internal structure instead of just going after scale.




