# large language model
## Insight-V: Exploring Long-Chain Visual Reasoning with Multimodal Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14432v1
- **Authors**: ['Yuhao Dong', 'Zuyan Liu', 'Hai-Long Sun', 'Jingkang Yang', 'Winston Hu', 'Yongming Rao', 'Ziwei Liu']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) demonstrate enhanced capabilities and reliability by reasoning more, evolving from Chain-of-Thought prompting to product-level solutions like OpenAI o1. Despite various efforts to improve LLM reasoning, high-quality long-chain reasoning data and optimized training pipelines still remain inadequately explored in vision-language tasks. In this paper, we present Insight-V, an early effort to 1) scalably produce long and robust reasoning data for complex multi-modal tasks, and 2) an effective training pipeline to enhance the reasoning capabilities of multi-modal large language models (MLLMs). Specifically, to create long and structured reasoning data without human labor, we design a two-step pipeline with a progressive strategy to generate sufficiently long and diverse reasoning paths and a multi-granularity assessment method to ensure data quality. We observe that directly supervising MLLMs with such long and complex reasoning data will not yield ideal reasoning ability. To tackle this problem, we design a multi-agent system consisting of a reasoning agent dedicated to performing long-chain reasoning and a summary agent trained to judge and summarize reasoning results. We further incorporate an iterative DPO algorithm to enhance the reasoning agent's generation stability and quality. Based on the popular LLaVA-NeXT model and our stronger base MLLM, we demonstrate significant performance gains across challenging multi-modal benchmarks requiring visual reasoning. Benefiting from our multi-agent system, Insight-V can also easily maintain or improve performance on perception-focused multi-modal tasks.





## Beyond Training: Dynamic Token Merging for Zero-Shot Video Understanding
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14401v1
- **Authors**: ['Yiming Zhang', 'Zhuokai Zhao', 'Zhaorun Chen', 'Zenghui Ding', 'Xianjun Yang', 'Yining Sun']
- **Abstrat**: Recent advancements in multimodal large language models (MLLMs) have opened new avenues for video understanding. However, achieving high fidelity in zero-shot video tasks remains challenging. Traditional video processing methods rely heavily on fine-tuning to capture nuanced spatial-temporal details, which incurs significant data and computation costs. In contrast, training-free approaches, though efficient, often lack robustness in preserving context-rich features across complex video content. To this end, we propose DYTO, a novel dynamic token merging framework for zero-shot video understanding that adaptively optimizes token efficiency while preserving crucial scene details. DYTO integrates a hierarchical frame selection and a bipartite token merging strategy to dynamically cluster key frames and selectively compress token sequences, striking a balance between computational efficiency with semantic richness. Extensive experiments across multiple benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness of DYTO, achieving superior performance compared to both fine-tuned and training-free methods and setting a new state-of-the-art for zero-shot video understanding.





## Lightweight Safety Guardrails Using Fine-tuned BERT Embeddings
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14398v1
- **Authors**: ['Aaron Zheng', 'Mansi Rana', 'Andreas Stolcke']
- **Abstrat**: With the recent proliferation of large language models (LLMs), enterprises have been able to rapidly develop proof-of-concepts and prototypes. As a result, there is a growing need to implement robust guardrails that monitor, quantize and control an LLM's behavior, ensuring that the use is reliable, safe, accurate and also aligned with the users' expectations. Previous approaches for filtering out inappropriate user prompts or system outputs, such as LlamaGuard and OpenAI's MOD API, have achieved significant success by fine-tuning existing LLMs. However, using fine-tuned LLMs as guardrails introduces increased latency and higher maintenance costs, which may not be practical or scalable for cost-efficient deployments. We take a different approach, focusing on fine-tuning a lightweight architecture: Sentence-BERT. This method reduces the model size from LlamaGuard's 7 billion parameters to approximately 67 million, while maintaining comparable performance on the AEGIS safety benchmark.




