# large language model
## SVDQunat: Absorbing Outliers by Low-Rank Components for 4-Bit Diffusion Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.05007v1
- **Authors**: ['Muyang Li', 'Yujun Lin', 'Zhekai Zhang', 'Tianle Cai', 'Xiuyu Li', 'Junxian Guo', 'Enze Xie', 'Chenlin Meng', 'Jun-Yan Zhu', 'Song Han']
- **Abstrat**: Diffusion models have been proven highly effective at generating high-quality images. However, as these models grow larger, they require significantly more memory and suffer from higher latency, posing substantial challenges for deployment. In this work, we aim to accelerate diffusion models by quantizing their weights and activations to 4 bits. At such an aggressive level, both weights and activations are highly sensitive, where conventional post-training quantization methods for large language models like smoothing become insufficient. To overcome this limitation, we propose SVDQuant, a new 4-bit quantization paradigm. Different from smoothing which redistributes outliers between weights and activations, our approach absorbs these outliers using a low-rank branch. We first consolidate the outliers by shifting them from activations to weights, then employ a high-precision low-rank branch to take in the weight outliers with Singular Value Decomposition (SVD). This process eases the quantization on both sides. However, na\"{\i}vely running the low-rank branch independently incurs significant overhead due to extra data movement of activations, negating the quantization speedup. To address this, we co-design an inference engine Nunchaku that fuses the kernels of the low-rank branch into those of the low-bit branch to cut off redundant memory access. It can also seamlessly support off-the-shelf low-rank adapters (LoRAs) without the need for re-quantization. Extensive experiments on SDXL, PixArt-$\Sigma$, and FLUX.1 validate the effectiveness of SVDQuant in preserving image quality. We reduce the memory usage for the 12B FLUX.1 models by 3.5$\times$, achieving 3.0$\times$ speedup over the 4-bit weight-only quantized baseline on the 16GB laptop 4090 GPU, paving the way for more interactive applications on PCs. Our quantization library and inference engine are open-sourced.





## Needle Threading: Can LLMs Follow Threads through Near-Million-Scale Haystacks?
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.05000v1
- **Authors**: ['Jonathan Roberts', 'Kai Han', 'Samuel Albanie']
- **Abstrat**: As the context limits of Large Language Models (LLMs) increase, the range of possible applications and downstream functions broadens. In many real-world tasks, decisions depend on details scattered across collections of often disparate documents containing mostly irrelevant information. Long-context LLMs appear well-suited to this form of complex information retrieval and reasoning, which has traditionally proven costly and time-consuming. However, although the development of longer context models has seen rapid gains in recent years, our understanding of how effectively LLMs use their context has not kept pace. To address this, we conduct a set of retrieval experiments designed to evaluate the capabilities of 17 leading LLMs, such as their ability to follow threads of information through the context window. Strikingly, we find that many models are remarkably threadsafe: capable of simultaneously following multiple threads without significant loss in performance. Still, for many models, we find the effective context limit is significantly shorter than the supported context length, with accuracy decreasing as the context window grows. Our study also highlights the important point that token counts from different tokenizers should not be directly compared -- they often correspond to substantially different numbers of written characters. We release our code and long-context experimental data.





## LLM2CLIP: Powerful Language Model Unlock Richer Visual Representation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04997v1
- **Authors**: ['Weiquan Huang', 'Aoqi Wu', 'Yifan Yang', 'Xufang Luo', 'Yuqing Yang', 'Liang Hu', 'Qi Dai', 'Xiyang Dai', 'Dongdong Chen', 'Chong Luo', 'Lili Qiu']
- **Abstrat**: CLIP is one of the most important multimodal foundational models today. What powers CLIP's capabilities? The rich supervision signals provided by natural language, the carrier of human knowledge, shape a powerful cross-modal representation space. However, with the rapid advancements in large language models LLMs like GPT-4 and LLaMA, the boundaries of language comprehension and generation are continually being pushed. This raises an intriguing question: can the capabilities of LLMs be harnessed to further improve multimodal representation learning? The potential benefits of incorporating LLMs into CLIP are clear. LLMs' strong textual understanding can fundamentally improve CLIP's ability to handle image captions, drastically enhancing its ability to process long and complex texts, a well-known limitation of vanilla CLIP. Moreover, LLMs are trained on a vast corpus of text, possessing open-world knowledge. This allows them to expand on caption information during training, increasing the efficiency of the learning process. In this paper, we propose LLM2CLIP, a novel approach that embraces the power of LLMs to unlock CLIP's potential. By fine-tuning the LLM in the caption space with contrastive learning, we extract its textual capabilities into the output embeddings, significantly improving the output layer's textual discriminability. We then design an efficient training process where the fine-tuned LLM acts as a powerful teacher for CLIP's visual encoder. Thanks to the LLM's presence, we can now incorporate longer and more complex captions without being restricted by vanilla CLIP's text encoder's context window and ability limitations. Our experiments demonstrate that this approach brings substantial improvements in cross-modal tasks.





## Mixture-of-Transformers: A Sparse and Scalable Architecture for Multi-Modal Foundation Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04996v1
- **Authors**: ['Weixin Liang', 'Lili Yu', 'Liang Luo', 'Srinivasan Iyer', 'Ning Dong', 'Chunting Zhou', 'Gargi Ghosh', 'Mike Lewis', 'Wen-tau Yih', 'Luke Zettlemoyer', 'Xi Victoria Lin']
- **Abstrat**: The development of large language models (LLMs) has expanded to multi-modal systems capable of processing text, images, and speech within a unified framework. Training these models demands significantly larger datasets and computational resources compared to text-only LLMs. To address the scaling challenges, we introduce Mixture-of-Transformers (MoT), a sparse multi-modal transformer architecture that significantly reduces pretraining computational costs. MoT decouples non-embedding parameters of the model by modality --including feed-forward networks, attention matrices, and layer normalization --enabling modality-specific processing with global self-attention over the full input sequence. We evaluate MoT across multiple settings and model scales. In the Chameleon 7B setting (autoregressive text-and-image generation), MoT matches the dense baseline's performance using only 55.8\% of the FLOPs. When extended to include speech, MoT reaches speech performance comparable to the dense baseline with only 37.2\% of the FLOPs. In the Transfusion setting, where text and image are trained with different objectives, a 7B MoT model matches the image modality performance of the dense baseline with one third of the FLOPs, and a 760M MoT model outperforms a 1.4B dense baseline across key image generation metrics. System profiling further highlights MoT's practical benefits, achieving dense baseline image quality in 47.2\% of the wall-clock time and text quality in 75.6\% of the wall-clock time (measured on AWS p4de.24xlarge instances with NVIDIA A100 GPUs).





## Fine-tuning Large Language Models for DGA and DNS Exfiltration Detection
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.21723v2
- **Authors**: ['Md Abu Sayed', 'Asif Rahman', 'Christopher Kiekintveld', 'Sebastian Garcia']
- **Abstrat**: Domain Generation Algorithms (DGAs) are malicious techniques used by malware to dynamically generate seemingly random domain names for communication with Command & Control (C&C) servers. Due to the fast and simple generation of DGA domains, detection methods must be highly efficient and precise to be effective. Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated their proficiency in real-time detection tasks, making them ideal candidates for detecting DGAs. Our work validates the effectiveness of fine-tuned LLMs for detecting DGAs and DNS exfiltration attacks. We developed LLM models and conducted comprehensive evaluation using a diverse dataset comprising 59 distinct real-world DGA malware families and normal domain data. Our LLM model significantly outperformed traditional natural language processing techniques, especially in detecting unknown DGAs. We also evaluated its performance on DNS exfiltration datasets, demonstrating its effectiveness in enhancing cybersecurity measures. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that empirically applies LLMs for DGA and DNS exfiltration detection.





## Rethinking Bradley-Terry Models in Preference-Based Reward Modeling: Foundations, Theory, and Alternatives
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04991v1
- **Authors**: ['Hao Sun', 'Yunyi Shen', 'Jean-Francois Ton']
- **Abstrat**: The Bradley-Terry (BT) model is a common and successful practice in reward modeling for Large Language Model (LLM) alignment. However, it remains unclear why this model -- originally developed for multi-player stochastic game matching -- can be adopted to convert pairwise response comparisons to reward values and make predictions. Especially given the fact that only a limited number of prompt-response pairs are sparsely compared with others. In this paper, we first revisit the foundations of using BT models in reward modeling, and establish the convergence rate of BT reward models based on deep neural networks using embeddings, providing a theoretical foundation for their use. Despite theoretically sound, we argue that the BT model is not a necessary choice from the perspective of downstream optimization. This is because a reward model only needs to preserve the correct ranking predictions through a monotonic transformation of the true reward. We highlight the critical concept of order consistency in reward modeling and demonstrate that the BT model possesses this property. Consequently, we propose a simple and straightforward upper-bound algorithm, compatible with off-the-shelf binary classifiers, as an alternative order-consistent reward modeling objective. To offer practical insights, we empirically evaluate the performance of these different reward modeling approaches across more than 12,000 experimental setups, using $6$ base LLMs, $2$ datasets, and diverse annotation designs that vary in quantity, quality, and pairing choices in preference annotations.





## The Semantic Hub Hypothesis: Language Models Share Semantic Representations Across Languages and Modalities
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04986v1
- **Authors**: ['Zhaofeng Wu', 'Xinyan Velocity Yu', 'Dani Yogatama', 'Jiasen Lu', 'Yoon Kim']
- **Abstrat**: Modern language models can process inputs across diverse languages and modalities. We hypothesize that models acquire this capability through learning a shared representation space across heterogeneous data types (e.g., different languages and modalities), which places semantically similar inputs near one another, even if they are from different modalities/languages. We term this the semantic hub hypothesis, following the hub-and-spoke model from neuroscience (Patterson et al., 2007) which posits that semantic knowledge in the human brain is organized through a transmodal semantic "hub" which integrates information from various modality-specific "spokes" regions. We first show that model representations for semantically equivalent inputs in different languages are similar in the intermediate layers, and that this space can be interpreted using the model's dominant pretraining language via the logit lens. This tendency extends to other data types, including arithmetic expressions, code, and visual/audio inputs. Interventions in the shared representation space in one data type also predictably affect model outputs in other data types, suggesting that this shared representations space is not simply a vestigial byproduct of large-scale training on broad data, but something that is actively utilized by the model during input processing.





## Enhancing Reverse Engineering: Investigating and Benchmarking Large Language Models for Vulnerability Analysis in Decompiled Binaries
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04981v1
- **Authors**: ['Dylan Manuel', 'Nafis Tanveer Islam', 'Joseph Khoury', 'Ana Nunez', 'Elias Bou-Harb', 'Peyman Najafirad']
- **Abstrat**: Security experts reverse engineer (decompile) binary code to identify critical security vulnerabilities. The limited access to source code in vital systems - such as firmware, drivers, and proprietary software used in Critical Infrastructures (CI) - makes this analysis even more crucial on the binary level. Even with available source code, a semantic gap persists after compilation between the source and the binary code executed by the processor. This gap may hinder the detection of vulnerabilities in source code. That being said, current research on Large Language Models (LLMs) overlooks the significance of decompiled binaries in this area by focusing solely on source code. In this work, we are the first to empirically uncover the substantial semantic limitations of state-of-the-art LLMs when it comes to analyzing vulnerabilities in decompiled binaries, largely due to the absence of relevant datasets. To bridge the gap, we introduce DeBinVul, a novel decompiled binary code vulnerability dataset. Our dataset is multi-architecture and multi-optimization, focusing on C/C++ due to their wide usage in CI and association with numerous vulnerabilities. Specifically, we curate 150,872 samples of vulnerable and non-vulnerable decompiled binary code for the task of (i) identifying; (ii) classifying; (iii) describing vulnerabilities; and (iv) recovering function names in the domain of decompiled binaries. Subsequently, we fine-tune state-of-the-art LLMs using DeBinVul and report on a performance increase of 19%, 24%, and 21% in the capabilities of CodeLlama, Llama3, and CodeGen2 respectively, in detecting binary code vulnerabilities. Additionally, using DeBinVul, we report a high performance of 80-90% on the vulnerability classification task. Furthermore, we report improved performance in function name recovery and vulnerability description tasks.





## SuffixDecoding: A Model-Free Approach to Speeding Up Large Language Model Inference
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04975v1
- **Authors**: ['Gabriele Oliaro', 'Zhihao Jia', 'Daniel Campos', 'Aurick Qiao']
- **Abstrat**: We present SuffixDecoding, a novel model-free approach to accelerating large language model (LLM) inference through speculative decoding. Unlike existing methods that rely on draft models or specialized decoding heads, SuffixDecoding leverages suffix trees built from previously generated outputs to efficiently predict candidate token sequences. Our approach enables flexible tree-structured speculation without the overhead of maintaining and orchestrating additional models. SuffixDecoding builds and dynamically updates suffix trees to capture patterns in the generated text, using them to construct speculation trees through a principled scoring mechanism based on empirical token frequencies. SuffixDecoding requires only CPU memory which is plentiful and underutilized on typical LLM serving nodes. We demonstrate that SuffixDecoding achieves competitive speedups compared to model-based approaches across diverse workloads including open-domain chat, code generation, and text-to-SQL tasks. For open-ended chat and code generation tasks, SuffixDecoding achieves up to $1.4\times$ higher output throughput than SpecInfer and up to $1.1\times$ lower time-per-token (TPOT) latency. For a proprietary multi-LLM text-to-SQL application, SuffixDecoding achieves up to $2.9\times$ higher output throughput and $3\times$ lower latency than speculative decoding. Our evaluation shows that SuffixDecoding maintains high acceptance rates even with small reference corpora of 256 examples, while continuing to improve performance as more historical outputs are incorporated.





## BitNet a4.8: 4-bit Activations for 1-bit LLMs
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04965v1
- **Authors**: ['Hongyu Wang', 'Shuming Ma', 'Furu Wei']
- **Abstrat**: Recent research on the 1-bit Large Language Models (LLMs), such as BitNet b1.58, presents a promising direction for reducing the inference cost of LLMs while maintaining their performance. In this work, we introduce BitNet a4.8, enabling 4-bit activations for 1-bit LLMs. BitNet a4.8 employs a hybrid quantization and sparsification strategy to mitigate the quantization errors introduced by the outlier channels. Specifically, we utilize 4-bit activations for inputs to the attention and feed-forward network layers, while sparsifying intermediate states followed with 8-bit quantization. Extensive experiments demonstrate that BitNet a4.8 achieves performance comparable to BitNet b1.58 with equivalent training costs, while being faster in inference with enabling 4-bit (INT4/FP4) kernels. Additionally, BitNet a4.8 activates only 55% of parameters and supports 3-bit KV cache, further enhancing the efficiency of large-scale LLM deployment and inference.





## Position Paper On Diagnostic Uncertainty Estimation from Large Language Models: Next-Word Probability Is Not Pre-test Probability
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04962v1
- **Authors**: ['Yanjun Gao', 'Skatje Myers', 'Shan Chen', 'Dmitriy Dligach', 'Timothy A Miller', 'Danielle Bitterman', 'Guanhua Chen', 'Anoop Mayampurath', 'Matthew Churpek', 'Majid Afshar']
- **Abstrat**: Large language models (LLMs) are being explored for diagnostic decision support, yet their ability to estimate pre-test probabilities, vital for clinical decision-making, remains limited. This study evaluates two LLMs, Mistral-7B and Llama3-70B, using structured electronic health record data on three diagnosis tasks. We examined three current methods of extracting LLM probability estimations and revealed their limitations. We aim to highlight the need for improved techniques in LLM confidence estimation.





## CAD-MLLM: Unifying Multimodality-Conditioned CAD Generation With MLLM
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04954v1
- **Authors**: ['Jingwei Xu', 'Chenyu Wang', 'Zibo Zhao', 'Wen Liu', 'Yi Ma', 'Shenghua Gao']
- **Abstrat**: This paper aims to design a unified Computer-Aided Design (CAD) generation system that can easily generate CAD models based on the user's inputs in the form of textual description, images, point clouds, or even a combination of them. Towards this goal, we introduce the CAD-MLLM, the first system capable of generating parametric CAD models conditioned on the multimodal input. Specifically, within the CAD-MLLM framework, we leverage the command sequences of CAD models and then employ advanced large language models (LLMs) to align the feature space across these diverse multi-modalities data and CAD models' vectorized representations. To facilitate the model training, we design a comprehensive data construction and annotation pipeline that equips each CAD model with corresponding multimodal data. Our resulting dataset, named Omni-CAD, is the first multimodal CAD dataset that contains textual description, multi-view images, points, and command sequence for each CAD model. It contains approximately 450K instances and their CAD construction sequences. To thoroughly evaluate the quality of our generated CAD models, we go beyond current evaluation metrics that focus on reconstruction quality by introducing additional metrics that assess topology quality and surface enclosure extent. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that CAD-MLLM significantly outperforms existing conditional generative methods and remains highly robust to noises and missing points. The project page and more visualizations can be found at: https://cad-mllm.github.io/





## Meta-Models: An Architecture for Decoding LLM Behaviors Through Interpreted Embeddings and Natural Language
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.02472v3
- **Authors**: ['Anthony Costarelli', 'Mat Allen', 'Severin Field']
- **Abstrat**: As Large Language Models (LLMs) become increasingly integrated into our daily lives, the potential harms from deceptive behavior underlie the need for faithfully interpreting their decision-making. While traditional probing methods have shown some effectiveness, they remain best for narrowly scoped tasks while more comprehensive explanations are still necessary. To this end, we investigate meta-models-an architecture using a "meta-model" that takes activations from an "input-model" and answers natural language questions about the input-model's behaviors. We evaluate the meta-model's ability to generalize by training them on selected task types and assessing their out-of-distribution performance in deceptive scenarios. Our findings show that meta-models generalize well to out-of-distribution tasks and point towards opportunities for future research in this area. Our code is available at https://github.com/acostarelli/meta-models-public .





## Talking the Talk Does Not Entail Walking the Walk: On the Limits of Large Language Models in Lexical Entailment Recognition
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.14894v2
- **Authors**: ['Candida M. Greco', 'Lucio La Cava', 'Andrea Tagarelli']
- **Abstrat**: Verbs form the backbone of language, providing the structure and meaning to sentences. Yet, their intricate semantic nuances pose a longstanding challenge. Understanding verb relations through the concept of lexical entailment is crucial for comprehending sentence meanings and grasping verb dynamics. This work investigates the capabilities of eight Large Language Models in recognizing lexical entailment relations among verbs through differently devised prompting strategies and zero-/few-shot settings over verb pairs from two lexical databases, namely WordNet and HyperLex. Our findings unveil that the models can tackle the lexical entailment recognition task with moderately good performance, although at varying degree of effectiveness and under different conditions. Also, utilizing few-shot prompting can enhance the models' performance. However, perfectly solving the task arises as an unmet challenge for all examined LLMs, which raises an emergence for further research developments on this topic.




