# large language model
## Classification Done Right for Vision-Language Pre-Training
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.03313v1
- **Authors**: ['Huang Zilong', 'Ye Qinghao', 'Kang Bingyi', 'Feng Jiashi', 'Fan Haoqi']
- **Abstrat**: We introduce SuperClass, a super simple classification method for vision-language pre-training on image-text data. Unlike its contrastive counterpart CLIP who contrast with a text encoder, SuperClass directly utilizes tokenized raw text as supervised classification labels, without the need for additional text filtering or selection. Due to the absence of the text encoding as contrastive target, SuperClass does not require a text encoder and does not need to maintain a large batch size as CLIP does. SuperClass demonstrated superior performance on various downstream tasks, including classic computer vision benchmarks and vision language downstream tasks. We further explored the scaling behavior of SuperClass on model size, training length, or data size, and reported encouraging results and comparisons to CLIP. https://github.com/x-cls/superclass





## Inference Optimal VLMs Need Only One Visual Token but Larger Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.03312v1
- **Authors**: ['Kevin Y. Li', 'Sachin Goyal', 'Joao D. Semedo', 'J. Zico Kolter']
- **Abstrat**: Vision Language Models (VLMs) have demonstrated strong capabilities across various visual understanding and reasoning tasks. However, their real-world deployment is often constrained by high latency during inference due to substantial compute required to process the large number of input tokens (predominantly from the image) by the LLM. To reduce inference costs, one can either downsize the LLM or reduce the number of input image-tokens, the latter of which has been the focus of many recent works around token compression. However, it is unclear what the optimal trade-off is, as both the factors directly affect the VLM performance. We first characterize this optimal trade-off between the number of visual tokens and LLM parameters by establishing scaling laws that capture variations in performance with these two factors. Our results reveal a surprising trend: for visual reasoning tasks, the inference-optimal behavior in VLMs, i.e., minimum downstream error at any given fixed inference compute, is achieved when using the largest LLM that fits within the inference budget while minimizing visual token count - often to a single token. While the token reduction literature has mainly focused on maintaining base model performance by modestly reducing the token count (e.g., $5-10\times$), our results indicate that the compute-optimal inference regime requires operating under even higher token compression ratios. Based on these insights, we take some initial steps towards building approaches tailored for high token compression settings. Code is available at https://github.com/locuslab/llava-token-compression.




