# large language model
## SepLLM: Accelerate Large Language Models by Compressing One Segment into One Separator
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.12094v1
- **Authors**: ['Guoxuan Chen', 'Han Shi', 'Jiawei Li', 'Yihang Gao', 'Xiaozhe Ren', 'Yimeng Chen', 'Xin Jiang', 'Zhenguo Li', 'Weiyang Liu', 'Chao Huang']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) have exhibited exceptional performance across a spectrum of natural language processing tasks. However, their substantial sizes pose considerable challenges, particularly in computational demands and inference speed, due to their quadratic complexity. In this work, we have identified a key pattern: certain seemingly meaningless special tokens (i.e., separators) contribute disproportionately to attention scores compared to semantically meaningful tokens. This observation suggests that information of the segments between these separator tokens can be effectively condensed into the separator tokens themselves without significant information loss. Guided by this insight, we introduce SepLLM, a plug-and-play framework that accelerates inference by compressing these segments and eliminating redundant tokens. Additionally, we implement efficient kernels for training acceleration. Experimental results across training-free, training-from-scratch, and post-training settings demonstrate SepLLM's effectiveness. Notably, using the Llama-3-8B backbone, SepLLM achieves over 50% reduction in KV cache on the GSM8K-CoT benchmark while maintaining comparable performance. Furthermore, in streaming settings, SepLLM effectively processes sequences of up to 4 million tokens or more while maintaining consistent language modeling capabilities.





## Instruction-based Image Manipulation by Watching How Things Move
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.12087v1
- **Authors**: ['Mingdeng Cao', 'Xuaner Zhang', 'Yinqiang Zheng', 'Zhihao Xia']
- **Abstrat**: This paper introduces a novel dataset construction pipeline that samples pairs of frames from videos and uses multimodal large language models (MLLMs) to generate editing instructions for training instruction-based image manipulation models. Video frames inherently preserve the identity of subjects and scenes, ensuring consistent content preservation during editing. Additionally, video data captures diverse, natural dynamics-such as non-rigid subject motion and complex camera movements-that are difficult to model otherwise, making it an ideal source for scalable dataset construction. Using this approach, we create a new dataset to train InstructMove, a model capable of instruction-based complex manipulations that are difficult to achieve with synthetically generated datasets. Our model demonstrates state-of-the-art performance in tasks such as adjusting subject poses, rearranging elements, and altering camera perspectives.





## UniLoc: Towards Universal Place Recognition Using Any Single Modality
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.12079v1
- **Authors**: ['Yan Xia', 'Zhendong Li', 'Yun-Jin Li', 'Letian Shi', 'Hu Cao', 'João F. Henriques', 'Daniel Cremers']
- **Abstrat**: To date, most place recognition methods focus on single-modality retrieval. While they perform well in specific environments, cross-modal methods offer greater flexibility by allowing seamless switching between map and query sources. It also promises to reduce computation requirements by having a unified model, and achieving greater sample efficiency by sharing parameters. In this work, we develop a universal solution to place recognition, UniLoc, that works with any single query modality (natural language, image, or point cloud). UniLoc leverages recent advances in large-scale contrastive learning, and learns by matching hierarchically at two levels: instance-level matching and scene-level matching. Specifically, we propose a novel Self-Attention based Pooling (SAP) module to evaluate the importance of instance descriptors when aggregated into a place-level descriptor. Experiments on the KITTI-360 dataset demonstrate the benefits of cross-modality for place recognition, achieving superior performance in cross-modal settings and competitive results also for uni-modal scenarios. Our project page is publicly available at https://yan-xia.github.io/projects/UniLoc/.





## CPath-Omni: A Unified Multimodal Foundation Model for Patch and Whole Slide Image Analysis in Computational Pathology
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.12077v1
- **Authors**: ['Yuxuan Sun', 'Yixuan Si', 'Chenglu Zhu', 'Xuan Gong', 'Kai Zhang', 'Pingyi Chen', 'Ye Zhang', 'Zhongyi Shui', 'Tao Lin', 'Lin Yang']
- **Abstrat**: The emergence of large multimodal models (LMMs) has brought significant advancements to pathology. Previous research has primarily focused on separately training patch-level and whole-slide image (WSI)-level models, limiting the integration of learned knowledge across patches and WSIs, and resulting in redundant models. In this work, we introduce CPath-Omni, the first 15-billion-parameter LMM designed to unify both patch and WSI level image analysis, consolidating a variety of tasks at both levels, including classification, visual question answering, captioning, and visual referring prompting. Extensive experiments demonstrate that CPath-Omni achieves state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance across seven diverse tasks on 39 out of 42 datasets, outperforming or matching task-specific models trained for individual tasks. Additionally, we develop a specialized pathology CLIP-based visual processor for CPath-Omni, CPath-CLIP, which, for the first time, integrates different vision models and incorporates a large language model as a text encoder to build a more powerful CLIP model, which achieves SOTA performance on nine zero-shot and four few-shot datasets. Our findings highlight CPath-Omni's ability to unify diverse pathology tasks, demonstrating its potential to streamline and advance the field of foundation model in pathology.





## CG-Bench: Clue-grounded Question Answering Benchmark for Long Video Understanding
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.12075v1
- **Authors**: ['Guo Chen', 'Yicheng Liu', 'Yifei Huang', 'Yuping He', 'Baoqi Pei', 'Jilan Xu', 'Yali Wang', 'Tong Lu', 'Limin Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Most existing video understanding benchmarks for multimodal large language models (MLLMs) focus only on short videos. The limited number of benchmarks for long video understanding often rely solely on multiple-choice questions (MCQs). However, because of the inherent limitation of MCQ-based evaluation and the increasing reasoning ability of MLLMs, models can give the current answer purely by combining short video understanding with elimination, without genuinely understanding the video content. To address this gap, we introduce CG-Bench, a novel benchmark designed for clue-grounded question answering in long videos. CG-Bench emphasizes the model's ability to retrieve relevant clues for questions, enhancing evaluation credibility. It features 1,219 manually curated videos categorized by a granular system with 14 primary categories, 171 secondary categories, and 638 tertiary categories, making it the largest benchmark for long video analysis. The benchmark includes 12,129 QA pairs in three major question types: perception, reasoning, and hallucination. Compensating the drawbacks of pure MCQ-based evaluation, we design two novel clue-based evaluation methods: clue-grounded white box and black box evaluations, to assess whether the model generates answers based on the correct understanding of the video. We evaluate multiple closed-source and open-source MLLMs on CG-Bench. Results indicate that current models significantly underperform in understanding long videos compared to short ones, and a significant gap exists between open-source and commercial models. We hope CG-Bench can advance the development of more trustworthy and capable MLLMs for long video understanding. All annotations and video data are released at https://cg-bench.github.io/leaderboard/.





## Making FETCH! Happen: Finding Emergent Dog Whistles Through Common Habitats
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.12072v1
- **Authors**: ['Kuleen Sasse', 'Carlos Aguirre', 'Isabel Cachola', 'Sharon Levy', 'Mark Dredze']
- **Abstrat**: WARNING: This paper contains content that maybe upsetting or offensive to some readers. Dog whistles are coded expressions with dual meanings: one intended for the general public (outgroup) and another that conveys a specific message to an intended audience (ingroup). Often, these expressions are used to convey controversial political opinions while maintaining plausible deniability and slip by content moderation filters. Identification of dog whistles relies on curated lexicons, which have trouble keeping up to date. We introduce \textbf{FETCH!}, a task for finding novel dog whistles in massive social media corpora. We find that state-of-the-art systems fail to achieve meaningful results across three distinct social media case studies. We present \textbf{EarShot}, a novel system that combines the strengths of vector databases and Large Language Models (LLMs) to efficiently and effectively identify new dog whistles.





## Toward Adaptive Large Language Models Structured Pruning via Hybrid-grained Weight Importance Assessment
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10799v4
- **Authors**: ['Jun Liu', 'Zhenglun Kong', 'Pu Zhao', 'Changdi Yang', 'Hao Tang', 'Xuan Shen', 'Geng Yuan', 'Wei Niu', 'Wenbin Zhang', 'Xue Lin', 'Dong Huang', 'Yanzhi Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Structured pruning for large language models (LLMs) has garnered significant academic interest due to its ability to efficiently compress and accelerate LLMs by eliminating redundant weight groups at a coarse-grained granularity. Current structured pruning methods for LLMs typically depend on a singular granularity for assessing weight importance, resulting in notable performance degradation in downstream tasks. Intriguingly, our empirical investigations reveal that utilizing unstructured pruning, which achieves better performance retention by pruning weights at a finer granularity, \emph{i.e.}, individual weights, yields significantly varied sparse LLM structures when juxtaposed to structured pruning. This suggests that evaluating both holistic and individual assessment for weight importance is essential for LLM pruning. Building on this insight, we introduce the Hybrid-grained Weight Importance Assessment (HyWIA), a novel method that merges fine-grained and coarse-grained evaluations of weight importance for the pruning of LLMs. Leveraging an attention mechanism, HyWIA adaptively determines the optimal blend of granularity in weight importance assessments in an end-to-end pruning manner. Extensive experiments on LLaMA-V1/V2, Vicuna, Baichuan, and Bloom across various benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness of HyWIA in pruning LLMs. For example, HyWIA surpasses the cutting-edge LLM-Pruner by an average margin of 2.82\% in accuracy across seven downstream tasks when pruning LLaMA-7B by 50\%.





## MGH Radiology Llama: A Llama 3 70B Model for Radiology
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.11848v2
- **Authors**: ['Yucheng Shi', 'Peng Shu', 'Zhengliang Liu', 'Zihao Wu', 'Quanzheng Li', 'Tianming Liu', 'Ninghao Liu', 'Xiang Li']
- **Abstrat**: In recent years, the field of radiology has increasingly harnessed the power of artificial intelligence (AI) to enhance diagnostic accuracy, streamline workflows, and improve patient care. Large language models (LLMs) have emerged as particularly promising tools, offering significant potential in assisting radiologists with report generation, clinical decision support, and patient communication. This paper presents an advanced radiology-focused large language model: MGH Radiology Llama. It is developed using the Llama 3 70B model, building upon previous domain-specific models like Radiology-GPT and Radiology-Llama2. Leveraging a unique and comprehensive dataset from Massachusetts General Hospital, comprising over 6.5 million de-identified medical reports across various imaging modalities, the model demonstrates significant improvements in generating accurate and clinically relevant radiology impressions given the corresponding findings. Our evaluation, incorporating both traditional metrics and a GPT-4-based assessment, highlights the enhanced performance of this work over general-purpose LLMs.





## Can LLM Prompting Serve as a Proxy for Static Analysis in Vulnerability Detection
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.12039v1
- **Authors**: ['Ira Ceka', 'Feitong Qiao', 'Anik Dey', 'Aastha Valechia', 'Gail Kaiser', 'Baishakhi Ray']
- **Abstrat**: Despite their remarkable success, large language models (LLMs) have shown limited ability on applied tasks such as vulnerability detection. We investigate various prompting strategies for vulnerability detection and, as part of this exploration, propose a prompting strategy that integrates natural language descriptions of vulnerabilities with a contrastive chain-of-thought reasoning approach, augmented using contrastive samples from a synthetic dataset. Our study highlights the potential of LLMs to detect vulnerabilities by integrating natural language descriptions, contrastive reasoning, and synthetic examples into a comprehensive prompting framework. Our results show that this approach can enhance LLM understanding of vulnerabilities. On a high-quality vulnerability detection dataset such as SVEN, our prompting strategies can improve accuracies, F1-scores, and pairwise accuracies by 23%, 11%, and 14%, respectively.




