# large language model
## EasyRef: Omni-Generalized Group Image Reference for Diffusion Models via Multimodal LLM
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09618v1
- **Authors**: ['Zhuofan Zong', 'Dongzhi Jiang', 'Bingqi Ma', 'Guanglu Song', 'Hao Shao', 'Dazhong Shen', 'Yu Liu', 'Hongsheng Li']
- **Abstrat**: Significant achievements in personalization of diffusion models have been witnessed. Conventional tuning-free methods mostly encode multiple reference images by averaging their image embeddings as the injection condition, but such an image-independent operation cannot perform interaction among images to capture consistent visual elements within multiple references. Although the tuning-based Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) can effectively extract consistent elements within multiple images through the training process, it necessitates specific finetuning for each distinct image group. This paper introduces EasyRef, a novel plug-and-play adaptation method that enables diffusion models to be conditioned on multiple reference images and the text prompt. To effectively exploit consistent visual elements within multiple images, we leverage the multi-image comprehension and instruction-following capabilities of the multimodal large language model (MLLM), prompting it to capture consistent visual elements based on the instruction. Besides, injecting the MLLM's representations into the diffusion process through adapters can easily generalize to unseen domains, mining the consistent visual elements within unseen data. To mitigate computational costs and enhance fine-grained detail preservation, we introduce an efficient reference aggregation strategy and a progressive training scheme. Finally, we introduce MRBench, a new multi-reference image generation benchmark. Experimental results demonstrate EasyRef surpasses both tuning-free methods like IP-Adapter and tuning-based methods like LoRA, achieving superior aesthetic quality and robust zero-shot generalization across diverse domains.





## Olympus: A Universal Task Router for Computer Vision Tasks
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09612v1
- **Authors**: ['Yuanze Lin', 'Yunsheng Li', 'Dongdong Chen', 'Weijian Xu', 'Ronald Clark', 'Philip H. S. Torr']
- **Abstrat**: We introduce Olympus, a new approach that transforms Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) into a unified framework capable of handling a wide array of computer vision tasks. Utilizing a controller MLLM, Olympus delegates over 20 specialized tasks across images, videos, and 3D objects to dedicated modules. This instruction-based routing enables complex workflows through chained actions without the need for training heavy generative models. Olympus easily integrates with existing MLLMs, expanding their capabilities with comparable performance. Experimental results demonstrate that Olympus achieves an average routing accuracy of 94.75% across 20 tasks and precision of 91.82% in chained action scenarios, showcasing its effectiveness as a universal task router that can solve a diverse range of computer vision tasks. Project page: https://github.com/yuanze-lin/Olympus_page





## PVC: Progressive Visual Token Compression for Unified Image and Video Processing in Large Vision-Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09613v1
- **Authors**: ['Chenyu Yang', 'Xuan Dong', 'Xizhou Zhu', 'Weijie Su', 'Jiahao Wang', 'Hao Tian', 'Zhe Chen', 'Wenhai Wang', 'Lewei Lu', 'Jifeng Dai']
- **Abstrat**: Large Vision-Language Models (VLMs) have been extended to understand both images and videos. Visual token compression is leveraged to reduce the considerable token length of visual inputs. To meet the needs of different tasks, existing high-performance models usually process images and videos separately with different token compression strategies, limiting the capabilities of combining images and videos. To this end, we extend each image into a "static" video and introduce a unified token compression strategy called Progressive Visual Token Compression (PVC), where the tokens of each frame are progressively encoded and adaptively compressed to supplement the information not extracted from previous frames. Video tokens are efficiently compressed with exploiting the inherent temporal redundancy. Images are repeated as static videos, and the spatial details can be gradually supplemented in multiple frames. PVC unifies the token compressing of images and videos. With a limited number of tokens per frame (64 tokens by default), spatial details and temporal changes can still be preserved. Experiments show that our model achieves state-of-the-art performance across various video understanding benchmarks, including long video tasks and fine-grained short video tasks. Meanwhile, our unified token compression strategy incurs no performance loss on image benchmarks, particularly in detail-sensitive tasks.





## AgentTrek: Agent Trajectory Synthesis via Guiding Replay with Web Tutorials
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09605v1
- **Authors**: ['Yiheng Xu', 'Dunjie Lu', 'Zhennan Shen', 'Junli Wang', 'Zekun Wang', 'Yuchen Mao', 'Caiming Xiong', 'Tao Yu']
- **Abstrat**: Graphical User Interface (GUI) agents hold great potential for automating complex tasks across diverse digital environments, from web applications to desktop software. However, the development of such agents is hindered by the lack of high-quality, multi-step trajectory data required for effective training. Existing approaches rely on expensive and labor-intensive human annotation, making them unsustainable at scale. To address this challenge, we propose AgentTrek, a scalable data synthesis pipeline that generates high-quality GUI agent trajectories by leveraging web tutorials. Our method automatically gathers tutorial-like texts from the internet, transforms them into task goals with step-by-step instructions, and employs a visual-language model agent to simulate their execution in a real digital environment. A VLM-based evaluator ensures the correctness of the generated trajectories. We demonstrate that training GUI agents with these synthesized trajectories significantly improves their grounding and planning performance over the current models. Moreover, our approach is more cost-efficient compared to traditional human annotation methods. This work underscores the potential of guided replay with web tutorials as a viable strategy for large-scale GUI agent training, paving the way for more capable and autonomous digital agents.





## SynerGen-VL: Towards Synergistic Image Understanding and Generation with Vision Experts and Token Folding
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09604v1
- **Authors**: ['Hao Li', 'Changyao Tian', 'Jie Shao', 'Xizhou Zhu', 'Zhaokai Wang', 'Jinguo Zhu', 'Wenhan Dou', 'Xiaogang Wang', 'Hongsheng Li', 'Lewei Lu', 'Jifeng Dai']
- **Abstrat**: The remarkable success of Large Language Models (LLMs) has extended to the multimodal domain, achieving outstanding performance in image understanding and generation. Recent efforts to develop unified Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) that integrate these capabilities have shown promising results. However, existing approaches often involve complex designs in model architecture or training pipeline, increasing the difficulty of model training and scaling. In this paper, we propose SynerGen-VL, a simple yet powerful encoder-free MLLM capable of both image understanding and generation. To address challenges identified in existing encoder-free unified MLLMs, we introduce the token folding mechanism and the vision-expert-based progressive alignment pretraining strategy, which effectively support high-resolution image understanding while reducing training complexity. After being trained on large-scale mixed image-text data with a unified next-token prediction objective, SynerGen-VL achieves or surpasses the performance of existing encoder-free unified MLLMs with comparable or smaller parameter sizes, and narrows the gap with task-specific state-of-the-art models, highlighting a promising path toward future unified MLLMs. Our code and models shall be released.





## Do Multimodal Large Language Models See Like Humans?
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09603v1
- **Authors**: ['Jiaying Lin', 'Shuquan Ye', 'Rynson W. H. Lau']
- **Abstrat**: Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) have achieved impressive results on various vision tasks, leveraging recent advancements in large language models. However, a critical question remains unaddressed: do MLLMs perceive visual information similarly to humans? Current benchmarks lack the ability to evaluate MLLMs from this perspective. To address this challenge, we introduce HVSBench, a large-scale benchmark designed to assess the alignment between MLLMs and the human visual system (HVS) on fundamental vision tasks that mirror human vision. HVSBench curated over 85K multimodal samples, spanning 13 categories and 5 fields in HVS, including Prominence, Subitizing, Prioritizing, Free-Viewing, and Searching. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our benchmark in providing a comprehensive evaluation of MLLMs. Specifically, we evaluate 13 MLLMs, revealing that even the best models show significant room for improvement, with most achieving only moderate results. Our experiments reveal that HVSBench presents a new and significant challenge for cutting-edge MLLMs. We believe that HVSBench will facilitate research on human-aligned and explainable MLLMs, marking a key step in understanding how MLLMs perceive and process visual information.





## LLAVIDAL: A Large LAnguage VIsion Model for Daily Activities of Living
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.09390v2
- **Authors**: ['Dominick Reilly', 'Rajatsubhra Chakraborty', 'Arkaprava Sinha', 'Manish Kumar Govind', 'Pu Wang', 'Francois Bremond', 'Le Xue', 'Srijan Das']
- **Abstrat**: Current Large Language Vision Models (LLVMs) trained on web videos perform well in general video understanding but struggle with fine-grained details, complex human-object interactions (HOI), and view-invariant representation learning essential for Activities of Daily Living (ADL). This limitation stems from a lack of specialized ADL video instruction-tuning datasets and insufficient modality integration to capture discriminative action representations. To address this, we propose a semi-automated framework for curating ADL datasets, creating ADL-X, a multiview, multimodal RGBS instruction-tuning dataset. Additionally, we introduce LLAVIDAL, an LLVM integrating videos, 3D skeletons, and HOIs to model ADL's complex spatiotemporal relationships. For training LLAVIDAL a simple joint alignment of all modalities yields suboptimal results; thus, we propose a Multimodal Progressive (MMPro) training strategy, incorporating modalities in stages following a curriculum. We also establish ADL MCQ and video description benchmarks to assess LLVM performance in ADL tasks. Trained on ADL-X, LLAVIDAL achieves state-of-the-art performance across ADL benchmarks. Code and data will be made publicly available at: https://adl-x.github.io/.





## InternLM-XComposer2.5-OmniLive: A Comprehensive Multimodal System for Long-term Streaming Video and Audio Interactions
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09596v1
- **Authors**: ['Pan Zhang', 'Xiaoyi Dong', 'Yuhang Cao', 'Yuhang Zang', 'Rui Qian', 'Xilin Wei', 'Lin Chen', 'Yifei Li', 'Junbo Niu', 'Shuangrui Ding', 'Qipeng Guo', 'Haodong Duan', 'Xin Chen', 'Han Lv', 'Zheng Nie', 'Min Zhang', 'Bin Wang', 'Wenwei Zhang', 'Xinyue Zhang', 'Jiaye Ge', 'Wei Li', 'Jingwen Li', 'Zhongying Tu', 'Conghui He', 'Xingcheng Zhang', 'Kai Chen', 'Yu Qiao', 'Dahua Lin', 'Jiaqi Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Creating AI systems that can interact with environments over long periods, similar to human cognition, has been a longstanding research goal. Recent advancements in multimodal large language models (MLLMs) have made significant strides in open-world understanding. However, the challenge of continuous and simultaneous streaming perception, memory, and reasoning remains largely unexplored. Current MLLMs are constrained by their sequence-to-sequence architecture, which limits their ability to process inputs and generate responses simultaneously, akin to being unable to think while perceiving. Furthermore, relying on long contexts to store historical data is impractical for long-term interactions, as retaining all information becomes costly and inefficient. Therefore, rather than relying on a single foundation model to perform all functions, this project draws inspiration from the concept of the Specialized Generalist AI and introduces disentangled streaming perception, reasoning, and memory mechanisms, enabling real-time interaction with streaming video and audio input. The proposed framework InternLM-XComposer2.5-OmniLive (IXC2.5-OL) consists of three key modules: (1) Streaming Perception Module: Processes multimodal information in real-time, storing key details in memory and triggering reasoning in response to user queries. (2) Multi-modal Long Memory Module: Integrates short-term and long-term memory, compressing short-term memories into long-term ones for efficient retrieval and improved accuracy. (3) Reasoning Module: Responds to queries and executes reasoning tasks, coordinating with the perception and memory modules. This project simulates human-like cognition, enabling multimodal large language models to provide continuous and adaptive service over time.





## DiverseAgentEntropy: Quantifying Black-Box LLM Uncertainty through Diverse Perspectives and Multi-Agent Interaction
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09572v1
- **Authors**: ['Yu Feng', 'Phu Mon Htut', 'Zheng Qi', 'Wei Xiao', 'Manuel Mager', 'Nikolaos Pappas', 'Kishaloy Halder', 'Yang Li', 'Yassine Benajiba', 'Dan Roth']
- **Abstrat**: Quantifying the uncertainty in the factual parametric knowledge of Large Language Models (LLMs), especially in a black-box setting, poses a significant challenge. Existing methods, which gauge a model's uncertainty through evaluating self-consistency in responses to the original query, do not always capture true uncertainty. Models might respond consistently to the origin query with a wrong answer, yet respond correctly to varied questions from different perspectives about the same query, and vice versa. In this paper, we propose a novel method, DiverseAgentEntropy, for evaluating a model's uncertainty using multi-agent interaction under the assumption that if a model is certain, it should consistently recall the answer to the original query across a diverse collection of questions about the same original query. We further implement an abstention policy to withhold responses when uncertainty is high. Our method offers a more accurate prediction of the model's reliability and further detects hallucinations, outperforming other self-consistency-based methods. Additionally, it demonstrates that existing models often fail to consistently retrieve the correct answer to the same query under diverse varied questions even when knowing the correct answer.





## Does Representation Matter? Exploring Intermediate Layers in Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09563v1
- **Authors**: ['Oscar Skean', 'Md Rifat Arefin', 'Yann LeCun', 'Ravid Shwartz-Ziv']
- **Abstrat**: Understanding what defines a good representation in large language models (LLMs) is fundamental to both theoretical understanding and practical applications. In this paper, we investigate the quality of intermediate representations in various LLM architectures, including Transformers and State Space Models (SSMs). We find that intermediate layers often yield more informative representations for downstream tasks than the final layers. To measure the representation quality, we adapt and apply a suite of metrics -such as prompt entropy, curvature, and augmentation-invariance - originally proposed in other contexts. Our empirical study reveals significant architectural differences, how representations evolve throughout training, and how factors like input randomness and prompt length affect each layer. Notably, we observe a bimodal pattern in the entropy of some intermediate layers and consider potential explanations tied to training data. Overall, our results illuminate the internal mechanics of LLMs and guide strategies for architectural optimization and training.





## Foundational Large Language Models for Materials Research
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09560v1
- **Authors**: ['Vaibhav Mishra', 'Somaditya Singh', 'Dhruv Ahlawat', 'Mohd Zaki', 'Vaibhav Bihani', 'Hargun Singh Grover', 'Biswajit Mishra', 'Santiago Miret', 'Mausam', 'N. M. Anoop Krishnan']
- **Abstrat**: Materials discovery and development are critical for addressing global challenges. Yet, the exponential growth in materials science literature comprising vast amounts of textual data has created significant bottlenecks in knowledge extraction, synthesis, and scientific reasoning. Large Language Models (LLMs) offer unprecedented opportunities to accelerate materials research through automated analysis and prediction. Still, their effective deployment requires domain-specific adaptation for understanding and solving domain-relevant tasks. Here, we present LLaMat, a family of foundational models for materials science developed through continued pretraining of LLaMA models on an extensive corpus of materials literature and crystallographic data. Through systematic evaluation, we demonstrate that LLaMat excels in materials-specific NLP and structured information extraction while maintaining general linguistic capabilities. The specialized LLaMat-CIF variant demonstrates unprecedented capabilities in crystal structure generation, predicting stable crystals with high coverage across the periodic table. Intriguingly, despite LLaMA-3's superior performance in comparison to LLaMA-2, we observe that LLaMat-2 demonstrates unexpectedly enhanced domain-specific performance across diverse materials science tasks, including structured information extraction from text and tables, more particularly in crystal structure generation, a potential adaptation rigidity in overtrained LLMs. Altogether, the present work demonstrates the effectiveness of domain adaptation towards developing practically deployable LLM copilots for materials research. Beyond materials science, our findings reveal important considerations for domain adaptation of LLMs, such as model selection, training methodology, and domain-specific performance, which may influence the development of specialized scientific AI systems.





## Unveiling the Impact of Coding Data Instruction Fine-Tuning on Large Language Models Reasoning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.20535v2
- **Authors**: ['Xinlu Zhang', 'Zhiyu Zoey Chen', 'Xi Ye', 'Xianjun Yang', 'Lichang Chen', 'William Yang Wang', 'Linda Ruth Petzold']
- **Abstrat**: Instruction Fine-Tuning (IFT) significantly enhances the zero-shot capabilities of pretrained Large Language Models (LLMs). While coding data is known to boost LLM reasoning abilities during pretraining, its role in activating internal reasoning capacities during IFT remains understudied. This paper investigates a key question: How does coding data impact LLMs' reasoning capacities during IFT stage? To explore this, we thoroughly examine the impact of coding data across different coding data proportions, model families, sizes, and reasoning domains, from various perspectives. Specifically, we create three IFT datasets with increasing coding data proportions, fine-tune six LLM backbones across different families and scales on these datasets, evaluate the tuned models' performance across twelve tasks in three reasoning domains, and analyze the outcomes from three broad-to-granular perspectives: overall, domain-level, and task-specific. Our holistic analysis provides valuable insights into each perspective. First, coding data tuning enhances the overall reasoning capabilities of LLMs across different model families and scales. Moreover, while the impact of coding data varies by domain, it shows consistent trends within each domain across different model families and scales. Additionally, coding data generally provides comparable task-specific benefits across model families, with optimal proportions in IFT datasets being task-dependent.





## Exemplar Masking for Multimodal Incremental Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09549v1
- **Authors**: ['Yi-Lun Lee', 'Chen-Yu Lee', 'Wei-Chen Chiu', 'Yi-Hsuan Tsai']
- **Abstrat**: Multimodal incremental learning needs to digest the information from multiple modalities while concurrently learning new knowledge without forgetting the previously learned information. There are numerous challenges for this task, mainly including the larger storage size of multimodal data in exemplar-based methods and the computational requirement of finetuning on huge multimodal models. In this paper, we leverage the parameter-efficient tuning scheme to reduce the burden of fine-tuning and propose the exemplar masking framework to efficiently replay old knowledge. Specifically, the non-important tokens are masked based on the attention weights and the correlation across different modalities, significantly reducing the storage size of an exemplar and consequently saving more exemplars under the same memory buffer. Moreover, we design a multimodal data augmentation technique to diversify exemplars for replaying prior knowledge. In experiments, we not only evaluate our method in existing multimodal datasets but also extend the ImageNet-R dataset to a multimodal dataset as a real-world application, where captions are generated by querying multimodal large language models (e.g., InstructBLIP). Extensive experiments show that our exemplar masking framework is more efficient and robust to catastrophic forgetting under the same limited memory buffer. Code is available at https://github.com/YiLunLee/Exemplar_Masking_MCIL.





## Dynamic-VLM: Simple Dynamic Visual Token Compression for VideoLLM
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09530v1
- **Authors**: ['Han Wang', 'Yuxiang Nie', 'Yongjie Ye', 'Deng GuanYu', 'Yanjie Wang', 'Shuai Li', 'Haiyang Yu', 'Jinghui Lu', 'Can Huang']
- **Abstrat**: The application of Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) for analyzing images and videos is an exciting and rapidly evolving field. In recent years, we've seen significant growth in high-quality image-text datasets for fine-tuning image understanding, but there is still a lack of comparable datasets for videos. Additionally, many VideoLLMs are extensions of single-image VLMs, which may not efficiently handle the complexities of longer videos. In this study, we introduce a large-scale synthetic dataset created from proprietary models, using carefully designed prompts to tackle a wide range of questions. We also explore a dynamic visual token compression architecture that strikes a balance between computational efficiency and performance. Our proposed \model{} achieves state-of-the-art results across various video tasks and shows impressive generalization, setting new baselines in multi-image understanding. Notably, \model{} delivers an absolute improvement of 2.7\% over LLaVA-OneVision on VideoMME and 10.7\% on MuirBench. Codes are available at https://github.com/Hon-Wong/ByteVideoLLM





## Can Modern LLMs Act as Agent Cores in Radiology~Environments?
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09529v1
- **Authors**: ['Qiaoyu Zheng', 'Chaoyi Wu', 'Pengcheng Qiu', 'Lisong Dai', 'Ya Zhang', 'Yanfeng Wang', 'Weidi Xie']
- **Abstrat**: Advancements in large language models (LLMs) have paved the way for LLM-based agent systems that offer enhanced accuracy and interpretability across various domains. Radiology, with its complex analytical requirements, is an ideal field for the application of these agents. This paper aims to investigate the pre-requisite question for building concrete radiology agents which is, `Can modern LLMs act as agent cores in radiology environments?' To investigate it, we introduce RadABench with three-fold contributions: First, we present RadABench-Data, a comprehensive synthetic evaluation dataset for LLM-based agents, generated from an extensive taxonomy encompassing 6 anatomies, 5 imaging modalities, 10 tool categories, and 11 radiology tasks. Second, we propose RadABench-EvalPlat, a novel evaluation platform for agents featuring a prompt-driven workflow and the capability to simulate a wide range of radiology toolsets. Third, we assess the performance of 7 leading LLMs on our benchmark from 5 perspectives with multiple metrics. Our findings indicate that while current LLMs demonstrate strong capabilities in many areas, they are still not sufficiently advanced to serve as the central agent core in a fully operational radiology agent system. Additionally, we identify key factors influencing the performance of LLM-based agent cores, offering insights for clinicians on how to apply agent systems in real-world radiology practices effectively. All of our code and data are open-sourced in https://github.com/MAGIC-AI4Med/RadABench.





## Liquid: Language Models are Scalable Multi-modal Generators
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04332v2
- **Authors**: ['Junfeng Wu', 'Yi Jiang', 'Chuofan Ma', 'Yuliang Liu', 'Hengshuang Zhao', 'Zehuan Yuan', 'Song Bai', 'Xiang Bai']
- **Abstrat**: We present Liquid, an auto-regressive generation paradigm that seamlessly integrates visual comprehension and generation by tokenizing images into discrete codes and learning these code embeddings alongside text tokens within a shared feature space for both vision and language. Unlike previous multimodal large language model (MLLM), Liquid achieves this integration using a single large language model (LLM), eliminating the need for external pretrained visual embeddings such as CLIP. For the first time, Liquid uncovers a scaling law that performance drop unavoidably brought by the unified training of visual and language tasks diminishes as the model size increases. Furthermore, the unified token space enables visual generation and comprehension tasks to mutually enhance each other, effectively removing the typical interference seen in earlier models. We show that existing LLMs can serve as strong foundations for Liquid, saving 100x in training costs while outperforming Chameleon in multimodal capabilities and maintaining language performance comparable to mainstream LLMs like LLAMA2. Liquid also outperforms models like SD v2.1 and SD-XL (FID of 5.47 on MJHQ-30K), excelling in both vision-language and text-only tasks. This work demonstrates that LLMs such as LLAMA3.2 and GEMMA2 are powerful multimodal generators, offering a scalable solution for enhancing both vision-language understanding and generation. The code and models will be released at https://github.com/FoundationVision/Liquid.





## Efficient and Comprehensive Feature Extraction in Large Vision-Language Model for Clinical Pathology Analysis
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09521v1
- **Authors**: ['Shengxuming Zhang', 'Weihan Li', 'Tianhong Gao', 'Jiacong Hu', 'Haoming Luo', 'Mingli Song', 'Xiuming Zhang', 'Zunlei Feng']
- **Abstrat**: Pathological diagnosis is vital for determining disease characteristics, guiding treatment, and assessing prognosis, relying heavily on detailed, multi-scale analysis of high-resolution whole slide images (WSI). However, traditional pure vision models face challenges of redundant feature extraction, whereas existing large vision-language models (LVLMs) are limited by input resolution constraints, hindering their efficiency and accuracy. To overcome these issues, we propose two innovative strategies: the mixed task-guided feature enhancement, which directs feature extraction toward lesion-related details across scales, and the prompt-guided detail feature completion, which integrates coarse- and fine-grained features from WSI based on specific prompts without compromising inference speed. Leveraging a comprehensive dataset of 490,000 samples from diverse pathology tasks-including cancer detection, grading, vascular and neural invasion identification, and so on-we trained the pathology-specialized LVLM, OmniPath. Extensive experiments demonstrate that this model significantly outperforms existing methods in diagnostic accuracy and efficiency, offering an interactive, clinically aligned approach for auxiliary diagnosis in a wide range of pathology applications.




