# large language model
## AutoVFX: Physically Realistic Video Editing from Natural Language Instructions
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02394v1
- **Authors**: ['Hao-Yu Hsu', 'Zhi-Hao Lin', 'Albert Zhai', 'Hongchi Xia', 'Shenlong Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Modern visual effects (VFX) software has made it possible for skilled artists to create imagery of virtually anything. However, the creation process remains laborious, complex, and largely inaccessible to everyday users. In this work, we present AutoVFX, a framework that automatically creates realistic and dynamic VFX videos from a single video and natural language instructions. By carefully integrating neural scene modeling, LLM-based code generation, and physical simulation, AutoVFX is able to provide physically-grounded, photorealistic editing effects that can be controlled directly using natural language instructions. We conduct extensive experiments to validate AutoVFX's efficacy across a diverse spectrum of videos and instructions. Quantitative and qualitative results suggest that AutoVFX outperforms all competing methods by a large margin in generative quality, instruction alignment, editing versatility, and physical plausibility.





## Training-free Regional Prompting for Diffusion Transformers
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02395v1
- **Authors**: ['Anthony Chen', 'Jianjin Xu', 'Wenzhao Zheng', 'Gaole Dai', 'Yida Wang', 'Renrui Zhang', 'Haofan Wang', 'Shanghang Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: Diffusion models have demonstrated excellent capabilities in text-to-image generation. Their semantic understanding (i.e., prompt following) ability has also been greatly improved with large language models (e.g., T5, Llama). However, existing models cannot perfectly handle long and complex text prompts, especially when the text prompts contain various objects with numerous attributes and interrelated spatial relationships. While many regional prompting methods have been proposed for UNet-based models (SD1.5, SDXL), but there are still no implementations based on the recent Diffusion Transformer (DiT) architecture, such as SD3 and FLUX.1.In this report, we propose and implement regional prompting for FLUX.1 based on attention manipulation, which enables DiT with fined-grained compositional text-to-image generation capability in a training-free manner. Code is available at https://github.com/antonioo-c/Regional-Prompting-FLUX.





## Adaptive Length Image Tokenization via Recurrent Allocation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02393v1
- **Authors**: ['Shivam Duggal', 'Phillip Isola', 'Antonio Torralba', 'William T. Freeman']
- **Abstrat**: Current vision systems typically assign fixed-length representations to images, regardless of the information content. This contrasts with human intelligence - and even large language models - which allocate varying representational capacities based on entropy, context and familiarity. Inspired by this, we propose an approach to learn variable-length token representations for 2D images. Our encoder-decoder architecture recursively processes 2D image tokens, distilling them into 1D latent tokens over multiple iterations of recurrent rollouts. Each iteration refines the 2D tokens, updates the existing 1D latent tokens, and adaptively increases representational capacity by adding new tokens. This enables compression of images into a variable number of tokens, ranging from 32 to 256. We validate our tokenizer using reconstruction loss and FID metrics, demonstrating that token count aligns with image entropy, familiarity and downstream task requirements. Recurrent token processing with increasing representational capacity in each iteration shows signs of token specialization, revealing potential for object / part discovery.





## Attacking Vision-Language Computer Agents via Pop-ups
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02391v1
- **Authors**: ['Yanzhe Zhang', 'Tao Yu', 'Diyi Yang']
- **Abstrat**: Autonomous agents powered by large vision and language models (VLM) have demonstrated significant potential in completing daily computer tasks, such as browsing the web to book travel and operating desktop software, which requires agents to understand these interfaces. Despite such visual inputs becoming more integrated into agentic applications, what types of risks and attacks exist around them still remain unclear. In this work, we demonstrate that VLM agents can be easily attacked by a set of carefully designed adversarial pop-ups, which human users would typically recognize and ignore. This distraction leads agents to click these pop-ups instead of performing the tasks as usual. Integrating these pop-ups into existing agent testing environments like OSWorld and VisualWebArena leads to an attack success rate (the frequency of the agent clicking the pop-ups) of 86% on average and decreases the task success rate by 47%. Basic defense techniques such as asking the agent to ignore pop-ups or including an advertisement notice, are ineffective against the attack.





## Improving Scientific Hypothesis Generation with Knowledge Grounded Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02382v1
- **Authors**: ['Guangzhi Xiong', 'Eric Xie', 'Amir Hassan Shariatmadari', 'Sikun Guo', 'Stefan Bekiranov', 'Aidong Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities in various scientific domains, from natural language processing to complex problem-solving tasks. Their ability to understand and generate human-like text has opened up new possibilities for advancing scientific research, enabling tasks such as data analysis, literature review, and even experimental design. One of the most promising applications of LLMs in this context is hypothesis generation, where they can identify novel research directions by analyzing existing knowledge. However, despite their potential, LLMs are prone to generating ``hallucinations'', outputs that are plausible-sounding but factually incorrect. Such a problem presents significant challenges in scientific fields that demand rigorous accuracy and verifiability, potentially leading to erroneous or misleading conclusions. To overcome these challenges, we propose KG-CoI (Knowledge Grounded Chain of Ideas), a novel system that enhances LLM hypothesis generation by integrating external, structured knowledge from knowledge graphs (KGs). KG-CoI guides LLMs through a structured reasoning process, organizing their output as a chain of ideas (CoI), and includes a KG-supported module for the detection of hallucinations. With experiments on our newly constructed hypothesis generation dataset, we demonstrate that KG-CoI not only improves the accuracy of LLM-generated hypotheses but also reduces the hallucination in their reasoning chains, highlighting its effectiveness in advancing real-world scientific research.





## Addressing Uncertainty in LLMs to Enhance Reliability in Generative AI
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02381v1
- **Authors**: ['Ramneet Kaur', 'Colin Samplawski', 'Adam D. Cobb', 'Anirban Roy', 'Brian Matejek', 'Manoj Acharya', 'Daniel Elenius', 'Alexander M. Berenbeim', 'John A. Pavlik', 'Nathaniel D. Bastian', 'Susmit Jha']
- **Abstrat**: In this paper, we present a dynamic semantic clustering approach inspired by the Chinese Restaurant Process, aimed at addressing uncertainty in the inference of Large Language Models (LLMs). We quantify uncertainty of an LLM on a given query by calculating entropy of the generated semantic clusters. Further, we propose leveraging the (negative) likelihood of these clusters as the (non)conformity score within Conformal Prediction framework, allowing the model to predict a set of responses instead of a single output, thereby accounting for uncertainty in its predictions. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our uncertainty quantification (UQ) technique on two well known question answering benchmarks, COQA and TriviaQA, utilizing two LLMs, Llama2 and Mistral. Our approach achieves SOTA performance in UQ, as assessed by metrics such as AUROC, AUARC, and AURAC. The proposed conformal predictor is also shown to produce smaller prediction sets while maintaining the same probabilistic guarantee of including the correct response, in comparison to existing SOTA conformal prediction baseline.





## AmbigNLG: Addressing Task Ambiguity in Instruction for NLG
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17717v4
- **Authors**: ['Ayana Niwa', 'Hayate Iso']
- **Abstrat**: We introduce AmbigNLG, a novel task designed to tackle the challenge of task ambiguity in instructions for Natural Language Generation (NLG). Ambiguous instructions often impede the performance of Large Language Models (LLMs), especially in complex NLG tasks. To tackle this issue, we propose an ambiguity taxonomy that categorizes different types of instruction ambiguities and refines initial instructions with clearer specifications. Accompanying this task, we present AmbigSNI-NLG, a dataset comprising 2,500 instances annotated to facilitate research in AmbigNLG. Through comprehensive experiments with state-of-the-art LLMs, we demonstrate that our method significantly enhances the alignment of generated text with user expectations, achieving up to a 15.02-point increase in ROUGE scores. Our findings highlight the critical importance of addressing task ambiguity to fully harness the capabilities of LLMs in NLG tasks. Furthermore, we confirm the effectiveness of our method in practical settings involving interactive ambiguity mitigation with users, underscoring the benefits of leveraging LLMs for interactive clarification.





## EMMA: End-to-End Multimodal Model for Autonomous Driving
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23262v2
- **Authors**: ['Jyh-Jing Hwang', 'Runsheng Xu', 'Hubert Lin', 'Wei-Chih Hung', 'Jingwei Ji', 'Kristy Choi', 'Di Huang', 'Tong He', 'Paul Covington', 'Benjamin Sapp', 'Yin Zhou', 'James Guo', 'Dragomir Anguelov', 'Mingxing Tan']
- **Abstrat**: We introduce EMMA, an End-to-end Multimodal Model for Autonomous driving. Built on a multi-modal large language model foundation, EMMA directly maps raw camera sensor data into various driving-specific outputs, including planner trajectories, perception objects, and road graph elements. EMMA maximizes the utility of world knowledge from the pre-trained large language models, by representing all non-sensor inputs (e.g. navigation instructions and ego vehicle status) and outputs (e.g. trajectories and 3D locations) as natural language text. This approach allows EMMA to jointly process various driving tasks in a unified language space, and generate the outputs for each task using task-specific prompts. Empirically, we demonstrate EMMA's effectiveness by achieving state-of-the-art performance in motion planning on nuScenes as well as competitive results on the Waymo Open Motion Dataset (WOMD). EMMA also yields competitive results for camera-primary 3D object detection on the Waymo Open Dataset (WOD). We show that co-training EMMA with planner trajectories, object detection, and road graph tasks yields improvements across all three domains, highlighting EMMA's potential as a generalist model for autonomous driving applications. However, EMMA also exhibits certain limitations: it can process only a small amount of image frames, does not incorporate accurate 3D sensing modalities like LiDAR or radar and is computationally expensive. We hope that our results will inspire further research to mitigate these issues and to further evolve the state of the art in autonomous driving model architectures.





## DTGB: A Comprehensive Benchmark for Dynamic Text-Attributed Graphs
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.12072v3
- **Authors**: ['Jiasheng Zhang', 'Jialin Chen', 'Menglin Yang', 'Aosong Feng', 'Shuang Liang', 'Jie Shao', 'Rex Ying']
- **Abstrat**: Dynamic text-attributed graphs (DyTAGs) are prevalent in various real-world scenarios, where each node and edge are associated with text descriptions, and both the graph structure and text descriptions evolve over time. Despite their broad applicability, there is a notable scarcity of benchmark datasets tailored to DyTAGs, which hinders the potential advancement in many research fields. To address this gap, we introduce Dynamic Text-attributed Graph Benchmark (DTGB), a collection of large-scale, time-evolving graphs from diverse domains, with nodes and edges enriched by dynamically changing text attributes and categories. To facilitate the use of DTGB, we design standardized evaluation procedures based on four real-world use cases: future link prediction, destination node retrieval, edge classification, and textual relation generation. These tasks require models to understand both dynamic graph structures and natural language, highlighting the unique challenges posed by DyTAGs. Moreover, we conduct extensive benchmark experiments on DTGB, evaluating 7 popular dynamic graph learning algorithms and their variants of adapting to text attributes with LLM embeddings, along with 6 powerful large language models (LLMs). Our results show the limitations of existing models in handling DyTAGs. Our analysis also demonstrates the utility of DTGB in investigating the incorporation of structural and textual dynamics. The proposed DTGB fosters research on DyTAGs and their broad applications. It offers a comprehensive benchmark for evaluating and advancing models to handle the interplay between dynamic graph structures and natural language. The dataset and source code are available at https://github.com/zjs123/DTGB.





## "Give Me BF16 or Give Me Death"? Accuracy-Performance Trade-Offs in LLM Quantization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02355v1
- **Authors**: ['Eldar Kurtic', 'Alexandre Marques', 'Shubhra Pandit', 'Mark Kurtz', 'Dan Alistarh']
- **Abstrat**: Despite the popularity of large language model (LLM) quantization for inference acceleration, significant uncertainty remains regarding the accuracy-performance trade-offs associated with various quantization formats. We present a comprehensive empirical study of quantized accuracy, evaluating popular quantization formats (FP8, INT8, INT4) across academic benchmarks and real-world tasks, on the entire Llama-3.1 model family. Additionally, our study examines the difference in text generated by quantized models versus their uncompressed counterparts. Beyond benchmarks, we also present a couple of quantization improvements which allowed us to obtain state-of-the-art accuracy recovery results. Our investigation, encompassing over 500,000 individual evaluations, yields several key findings: (1) FP8 weight and activation quantization (W8A8-FP) is lossless across all model scales, (2) INT8 weight and activation quantization (W8A8-INT), when properly tuned, incurs surprisingly low 1-3% accuracy degradation, and (3) INT4 weight-only quantization (W4A16-INT) is competitive with 8-bit integer weight and activation quantization. To address the question of the "best" format for a given deployment environment, we conduct inference performance analysis using the popular open-source vLLM framework on various GPU architectures. We find that W4A16 offers the best cost-efficiency for synchronous deployments, and for asynchronous deployment on mid-tier GPUs. At the same time, W8A8 formats excel in asynchronous "continuous batching" deployment of mid- and large-size models on high-end GPUs. Our results provide a set of practical guidelines for deploying quantized LLMs across scales and performance requirements.





## Social-RAG: Retrieving from Group Interactions to Socially Ground Proactive AI Generation to Group Preferences
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02353v1
- **Authors**: ['Ruotong Wang', 'Xinyi Zhou', 'Lin Qiu', 'Joseph Chee Chang', 'Jonathan Bragg', 'Amy X. Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: AI agents are increasingly tasked with making proactive suggestions in online spaces where groups collaborate, but can be unhelpful or even annoying, due to not fitting the group's preferences or behaving in socially inappropriate ways. Fortunately, group spaces have a rich history of prior social interactions and affordances for social feedback to support creating agents that align to a group's interests and norms. We present Social-RAG, a workflow for grounding agents to social information about a group, which retrieves from prior group interactions, selects relevant social signals, and then feeds the context into a large language model to generate messages to the group. We implement this into PaperPing, our system that posts academic paper recommendations in group chat, leveraging social signals determined from formative studies with 39 researchers. From a three-month deployment in 18 channels, we observed PaperPing posted relevant messages in groups without disrupting their existing social practices, fostering group common ground.





## Can Large Language Models generalize analogy solving like people can?
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02348v1
- **Authors**: ['Claire E. Stevenson', 'Alexandra Pafford', 'Han L. J. van der Maas', 'Melanie Mitchell']
- **Abstrat**: When we solve an analogy we transfer information from a known context to a new one through abstract rules and relational similarity. In people, the ability to solve analogies such as "body : feet :: table : ?" emerges in childhood, and appears to transfer easily to other domains, such as the visual domain "( : ) :: < : ?". Recent research shows that large language models (LLMs) can solve various forms of analogies. However, can LLMs generalize analogy solving to new domains like people can? To investigate this, we had children, adults, and LLMs solve a series of letter-string analogies (e.g., a b : a c :: j k : ?) in the Latin alphabet, in a near transfer domain (Greek alphabet), and a far transfer domain (list of symbols). As expected, children and adults easily generalized their knowledge to unfamiliar domains, whereas LLMs did not. This key difference between human and AI performance is evidence that these LLMs still struggle with robust human-like analogical transfer.




