# large language model
## Learning with Less: Knowledge Distillation from Large Language Models via Unlabeled Data
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.08028v1
- **Authors**: ['Juanhui Li', 'Sreyashi Nag', 'Hui Liu', 'Xianfeng Tang', 'Sheikh Sarwar', 'Limeng Cui', 'Hansu Gu', 'Suhang Wang', 'Qi He', 'Jiliang Tang']
- **Abstrat**: In real-world NLP applications, Large Language Models (LLMs) offer promising solutions due to their extensive training on vast datasets. However, the large size and high computation demands of LLMs limit their practicality in many applications, especially when further fine-tuning is required. To address these limitations, smaller models are typically preferred for deployment. However, their training is hindered by the scarcity of labeled data. In contrast, unlabeled data is often readily which can be leveraged by using LLMs to generate pseudo-labels for training smaller models. This enables the smaller models (student) to acquire knowledge from LLMs(teacher) while reducing computational costs. This process introduces challenges, such as potential noisy pseudo-labels. Selecting high-quality and informative data is therefore critical to enhance model performance while improving the efficiency of data utilization. To address this, we propose LLKD that enables Learning with Less computational resources and less data for Knowledge Distillation from LLMs. LLKD is an adaptive sample selection method that incorporates signals from both the teacher and student. Specifically, it prioritizes samples where the teacher demonstrates high confidence in its labeling, indicating reliable labels, and where the student exhibits a high information need, identifying challenging samples that require further learning. Our comprehensive experiments show that LLKD achieves superior performance across various datasets with higher data efficiency.





## LLMPhy: Complex Physical Reasoning Using Large Language Models and World Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.08027v1
- **Authors**: ['Anoop Cherian', 'Radu Corcodel', 'Siddarth Jain', 'Diego Romeres']
- **Abstrat**: Physical reasoning is an important skill needed for robotic agents when operating in the real world. However, solving such reasoning problems often involves hypothesizing and reflecting over complex multi-body interactions under the effect of a multitude of physical forces and thus learning all such interactions poses a significant hurdle for state-of-the-art machine learning frameworks, including large language models (LLMs). To study this problem, we propose a new physical reasoning task and a dataset, dubbed TraySim. Our task involves predicting the dynamics of several objects on a tray that is given an external impact -- the domino effect of the ensued object interactions and their dynamics thus offering a challenging yet controlled setup, with the goal of reasoning being to infer the stability of the objects after the impact. To solve this complex physical reasoning task, we present LLMPhy, a zero-shot black-box optimization framework that leverages the physics knowledge and program synthesis abilities of LLMs, and synergizes these abilities with the world models built into modern physics engines. Specifically, LLMPhy uses an LLM to generate code to iteratively estimate the physical hyperparameters of the system (friction, damping, layout, etc.) via an implicit analysis-by-synthesis approach using a (non-differentiable) simulator in the loop and uses the inferred parameters to imagine the dynamics of the scene towards solving the reasoning task. To show the effectiveness of LLMPhy, we present experiments on our TraySim dataset to predict the steady-state poses of the objects. Our results show that the combination of the LLM and the physics engine leads to state-of-the-art zero-shot physical reasoning performance, while demonstrating superior convergence against standard black-box optimization methods and better estimation of the physical parameters.





## Language Models as Causal Effect Generators
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.08019v1
- **Authors**: ['Lucius E. J. Bynum', 'Kyunghyun Cho']
- **Abstrat**: We present a framework for large language model (LLM) based data generation with controllable causal structure. In particular, we define a procedure for turning any language model and any directed acyclic graph (DAG) into a sequence-driven structural causal model (SD-SCM). Broadly speaking, an SD-SCM is a causal model with user-defined structure and LLM-defined structural equations. We characterize how an SD-SCM allows sampling from observational, interventional, and counterfactual distributions according to the desired causal structure. We then leverage this procedure to propose a new type of benchmark for causal inference methods, generating individual-level counterfactual data without needing to manually specify functional relationships between variables. We create an example benchmark consisting of thousands of datasets, and test a suite of popular estimation methods on these datasets for average, conditional average, and individual treatment effect estimation, both with and without hidden confounding. Apart from generating data, the same procedure also allows us to test for the presence of a causal effect that might be encoded in an LLM. This procedure can underpin auditing LLMs for misinformation, discrimination, or otherwise undesirable behavior. We believe SD-SCMs can serve as a useful tool in any application that would benefit from sequential data with controllable causal structure.





## ExpressivityArena: Can LLMs Express Information Implicitly?
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.08010v1
- **Authors**: ['Joshua Tint', 'Som Sagar', 'Aditya Taparia', 'Kelly Raines', 'Bimsara Pathiraja', 'Caleb Liu', 'Ransalu Senanayake']
- **Abstrat**: While Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable performance in certain dimensions, their ability to express implicit language cues that human use for effective communication remains unclear. This paper presents ExpressivityArena, a Python library for measuring the implicit communication abilities of LLMs. We provide a comprehensive framework to evaluate expressivity of arbitrary LLMs and explore its practical implications. To this end, we refine the definition and measurements of ``expressivity,'' and use our framework in a set of small experiments. These experiments test LLMs in creative and logical tasks such as poetry, coding, and emotion-based responses. They are then evaluated by an automated grader, through ExpressivityArena, which we verify to be the most pragmatic for testing expressivity. Building on these experiments, we deepen our understanding of the expressivity of LLMs by assessing their ability to remain expressive in conversations. Our findings indicate that LLMs are capable of generating and understanding expressive content, however, with some limitations. These insights will inform the future development and deployment of expressive LLMs. We provide the code for ExpressivityArena alongside our paper.





## Can adversarial attacks by large language models be attributed?
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.08003v1
- **Authors**: ['Manuel Cebrian', 'Jan Arne Telle']
- **Abstrat**: Attributing outputs from Large Language Models (LLMs) in adversarial settings-such as cyberattacks and disinformation-presents significant challenges that are likely to grow in importance. We investigate this attribution problem using formal language theory, specifically language identification in the limit as introduced by Gold and extended by Angluin. By modeling LLM outputs as formal languages, we analyze whether finite text samples can uniquely pinpoint the originating model. Our results show that due to the non-identifiability of certain language classes, under some mild assumptions about overlapping outputs from fine-tuned models it is theoretically impossible to attribute outputs to specific LLMs with certainty. This holds also when accounting for expressivity limitations of Transformer architectures. Even with direct model access or comprehensive monitoring, significant computational hurdles impede attribution efforts. These findings highlight an urgent need for proactive measures to mitigate risks posed by adversarial LLM use as their influence continues to expand.





## Derivational Morphology Reveals Analogical Generalization in Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.07990v1
- **Authors**: ['Valentin Hofmann', 'Leonie Weissweiler', 'David Mortensen', 'Hinrich Schütze', 'Janet Pierrehumbert']
- **Abstrat**: What mechanisms underlie linguistic generalization in large language models (LLMs)? This question has attracted considerable attention, with most studies analyzing the extent to which the language skills of LLMs resemble rules. As of yet, it is not known whether linguistic generalization in LLMs could equally well be explained as the result of analogical processes, which can be formalized as similarity operations on stored exemplars. A key shortcoming of prior research is its focus on linguistic phenomena with a high degree of regularity, for which rule-based and analogical approaches make the same predictions. Here, we instead examine derivational morphology, specifically English adjective nominalization, which displays notable variability. We introduce a new method for investigating linguistic generalization in LLMs: focusing on GPT-J, we fit cognitive models that instantiate rule-based and analogical learning to the LLM training data and compare their predictions on a set of nonce adjectives with those of the LLM, allowing us to draw direct conclusions regarding underlying mechanisms. As expected, rule-based and analogical models explain the predictions of GPT-J equally well for adjectives with regular nominalization patterns. However, for adjectives with variable nominalization patterns, the analogical model provides a much better match. Furthermore, GPT-J's behavior is sensitive to the individual word frequencies, even for regular forms, a behavior that is consistent with an analogical account of regular forms but not a rule-based one. These findings refute the hypothesis that GPT-J's linguistic generalization on adjective nominalization involves rules, suggesting similarity operations on stored exemplars as the underlying mechanism. Overall, our study suggests that analogical processes play a bigger role in the linguistic generalization of LLMs than previously thought.




