# large language model
## Do Large Language Model Benchmarks Test Reliability?
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03461v1
- **Authors**: ['Joshua Vendrow', 'Edward Vendrow', 'Sara Beery', 'Aleksander Madry']
- **Abstrat**: When deploying large language models (LLMs), it is important to ensure that these models are not only capable, but also reliable. Many benchmarks have been created to track LLMs' growing capabilities, however there has been no similar focus on measuring their reliability. To understand the potential ramifications of this gap, we investigate how well current benchmarks quantify model reliability. We find that pervasive label errors can compromise these evaluations, obscuring lingering model failures and hiding unreliable behavior.   Motivated by this gap in the evaluation of reliability, we then propose the concept of so-called platinum benchmarks, i.e., benchmarks carefully curated to minimize label errors and ambiguity. As a first attempt at constructing such benchmarks, we revise examples from fifteen existing popular benchmarks. We evaluate a wide range of models on these platinum benchmarks and find that, indeed, frontier LLMs still exhibit failures on simple tasks such as elementary-level math word problems. Analyzing these failures further reveals previously unidentified patterns of problems on which frontier models consistently struggle. We provide code at https://github.com/MadryLab/platinum-benchmarks





## Adapt-Pruner: Adaptive Structural Pruning for Efficient Small Language Model Training
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03460v1
- **Authors**: ['Boyao Wang', 'Rui Pan', 'Shizhe Diao', 'Xingyuan Pan', 'Jipeng Zhang', 'Renjie Pi', 'Tong Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: Small language models (SLMs) have attracted considerable attention from both academia and industry due to their broad range of applications in edge devices. To obtain SLMs with strong performance, conventional approaches either pre-train the models from scratch, which incurs substantial computational costs, or compress/prune existing large language models (LLMs), which results in performance drops and falls short in comparison to pre-training. In this paper, we investigate the family of acceleration methods that involve both structured pruning and model training. We found 1) layer-wise adaptive pruning (Adapt-Pruner) is extremely effective in LLMs and yields significant improvements over existing pruning techniques, 2) adaptive pruning equipped with further training leads to models comparable to those pre-training from scratch, 3) incremental pruning brings non-trivial performance gain by interleaving pruning with training and only removing a small portion of neurons ($\sim$5%) at a time. Experimental results on LLaMA-3.1-8B demonstrate that Adapt-Pruner outperforms conventional pruning methods, such as LLM-Pruner, FLAP, and SliceGPT, by an average of 1%-7% in accuracy on commonsense benchmarks. Additionally, Adapt-Pruner restores the performance of MobileLLM-125M to 600M on the MMLU benchmark with 200$\times$ fewer tokens via pruning from its larger counterparts, and discovers a new 1B model that surpasses LLaMA-3.2-1B in multiple benchmarks.





## SKI Models: Skeleton Induced Vision-Language Embeddings for Understanding Activities of Daily Living
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03459v1
- **Authors**: ['Arkaprava Sinha', 'Dominick Reilly', 'Francois Bremond', 'Pu Wang', 'Srijan Das']
- **Abstrat**: The introduction of vision-language models like CLIP has enabled the development of foundational video models capable of generalizing to unseen videos and human actions. However, these models are typically trained on web videos, which often fail to capture the challenges present in Activities of Daily Living (ADL) videos. Existing works address ADL-specific challenges, such as similar appearances, subtle motion patterns, and multiple viewpoints, by combining 3D skeletons and RGB videos. However, these approaches are not integrated with language, limiting their ability to generalize to unseen action classes. In this paper, we introduce SKI models, which integrate 3D skeletons into the vision-language embedding space. SKI models leverage a skeleton-language model, SkeletonCLIP, to infuse skeleton information into Vision Language Models (VLMs) and Large Vision Language Models (LVLMs) through collaborative training. Notably, SKI models do not require skeleton data during inference, enhancing their robustness for real-world applications. The effectiveness of SKI models is validated on three popular ADL datasets for zero-shot action recognition and video caption generation tasks.





## A Schema-Guided Reason-while-Retrieve framework for Reasoning on Scene Graphs with Large-Language-Models (LLMs)
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03450v1
- **Authors**: ['Yiye Chen', 'Harpreet Sawhney', 'Nicholas Gydé', 'Yanan Jian', 'Jack Saunders', 'Patricio Vela', 'Ben Lundell']
- **Abstrat**: Scene graphs have emerged as a structured and serializable environment representation for grounded spatial reasoning with Large Language Models (LLMs). In this work, we propose SG-RwR, a Schema-Guided Retrieve-while-Reason framework for reasoning and planning with scene graphs. Our approach employs two cooperative, code-writing LLM agents: a (1) Reasoner for task planning and information queries generation, and a (2) Retriever for extracting corresponding graph information following the queries. Two agents collaborate iteratively, enabling sequential reasoning and adaptive attention to graph information. Unlike prior works, both agents are prompted only with the scene graph schema rather than the full graph data, which reduces the hallucination by limiting input tokens, and drives the Reasoner to generate reasoning trace abstractly.Following the trace, the Retriever programmatically query the scene graph data based on the schema understanding, allowing dynamic and global attention on the graph that enhances alignment between reasoning and retrieval. Through experiments in multiple simulation environments, we show that our framework surpasses existing LLM-based approaches in numerical Q\&A and planning tasks, and can benefit from task-level few-shot examples, even in the absence of agent-level demonstrations. Project code will be released.





## S2-Attention: Hardware-Aware Context Sharding Among Attention Heads
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.17678v7
- **Authors**: ['Xihui Lin', 'Yunan Zhang', 'Suyu Ge', 'Liliang Ren', 'Barun Patra', 'Vishrav Chaudhary', 'Hao Peng', 'Xia Song']
- **Abstrat**: Sparse attention, which selectively attends to a subset of tokens in the context was supposed to be efficient. However, its theoretical reduction in FLOPs has rarely translated into wall-clock speed-up over its dense attention counterparts due to the lack of hardware-aware optimizations like FlashAttention. Meanwhile, it remains unclear whether sparse attention can maintain the model's quality at a scale of today's large language models (LLMs) and how. This paper presents Sparsely-Sharded(S2) Attention, a Triton library that provides kernel optimization for sparse attention customizable at both per-head and per-context-range levels. S2-Attention enables the exploration of novel and high-performance sparse attention techniques, which we demonstrate through extensive ablations across a wide range of sparse attention designs at various model scales. From these insights, we present several basic guidelines to design sparse attention that can achieve not only practical efficiency improvements, but also strong downstream performance. To achieve high parallelization and optimized memory IO, sparse attention should shard the context heterogeneously across attention heads, where each head attends to a different subset of tokens while collectively covering the full context. Meanwhile, we find hybrid architectures combining sparse and dense attention particularly beneficial in practice. S2-Attention achieves wall-clock speedup of 8.79X, 15.87X, 25.3X compared to the strong FlashAttention-2 baseline with strong downstream performance on-par with full attention and perfect retrieval performance at a 128k context length. At inference, for 7B models, our model, with the help of our S2-Attention kernel, achieves 4.5x speed-up compared to dense counterparts. S2-Attention is released with easy-to-customize APIs for direct usage in Megatron and vLLM.





## LMOD: A Large Multimodal Ophthalmology Dataset and Benchmark for Large Vision-Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.01620v5
- **Authors**: ['Zhenyue Qin', 'Yu Yin', 'Dylan Campbell', 'Xuansheng Wu', 'Ke Zou', 'Yih-Chung Tham', 'Ninghao Liu', 'Xiuzhen Zhang', 'Qingyu Chen']
- **Abstrat**: The prevalence of vision-threatening eye diseases is a significant global burden, with many cases remaining undiagnosed or diagnosed too late for effective treatment. Large vision-language models (LVLMs) have the potential to assist in understanding anatomical information, diagnosing eye diseases, and drafting interpretations and follow-up plans, thereby reducing the burden on clinicians and improving access to eye care. However, limited benchmarks are available to assess LVLMs' performance in ophthalmology-specific applications. In this study, we introduce LMOD, a large-scale multimodal ophthalmology benchmark consisting of 21,993 instances across (1) five ophthalmic imaging modalities: optical coherence tomography, color fundus photographs, scanning laser ophthalmoscopy, lens photographs, and surgical scenes; (2) free-text, demographic, and disease biomarker information; and (3) primary ophthalmology-specific applications such as anatomical information understanding, disease diagnosis, and subgroup analysis. In addition, we benchmarked 13 state-of-the-art LVLM representatives from closed-source, open-source, and medical domains. The results demonstrate a significant performance drop for LVLMs in ophthalmology compared to other domains. Systematic error analysis further identified six major failure modes: misclassification, failure to abstain, inconsistent reasoning, hallucination, assertions without justification, and lack of domain-specific knowledge. In contrast, supervised neural networks specifically trained on these tasks as baselines demonstrated high accuracy. These findings underscore the pressing need for benchmarks in the development and validation of ophthalmology-specific LVLMs.





## BFS-Prover: Scalable Best-First Tree Search for LLM-based Automatic Theorem Proving
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03438v1
- **Authors**: ['Ran Xin', 'Chenguang Xi', 'Jie Yang', 'Feng Chen', 'Hang Wu', 'Xia Xiao', 'Yifan Sun', 'Shen Zheng', 'Kai Shen']
- **Abstrat**: Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) have spurred growing interest in automatic theorem proving using Lean4, where effective tree search methods are crucial for navigating proof search spaces. While the existing approaches primarily rely on value functions and Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS), the potential of simpler methods like Best-First Search (BFS) remains underexplored. This paper investigates whether BFS can achieve competitive performance in large-scale theorem proving tasks. We present \texttt{BFS-Prover}, a scalable expert iteration framework, featuring three key innovations. First, we implement strategic data filtering at each expert iteration round, excluding problems solvable via beam search node expansion to focus on harder cases. Second, we improve the sample efficiency of BFS through Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) applied to state-tactic pairs automatically annotated with compiler error feedback, refining the LLM's policy to prioritize productive expansions. Third, we employ length normalization in BFS to encourage exploration of deeper proof paths. \texttt{BFS-Prover} achieves a score of $71.31$ on the MiniF2F test set and therefore challenges the perceived necessity of complex tree search methods, demonstrating that BFS can achieve competitive performance when properly scaled.





## On Fairness of Unified Multimodal Large Language Model for Image Generation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03429v1
- **Authors**: ['Ming Liu', 'Hao Chen', 'Jindong Wang', 'Liwen Wang', 'Bhiksha Raj Ramakrishnan', 'Wensheng Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: Unified multimodal large language models (U-MLLMs) have demonstrated impressive performance in visual understanding and generation in an end-to-end pipeline. Compared with generation-only models (e.g., Stable Diffusion), U-MLLMs may raise new questions about bias in their outputs, which can be affected by their unified capabilities. This gap is particularly concerning given the under-explored risk of propagating harmful stereotypes. In this paper, we benchmark the latest U-MLLMs and find that most exhibit significant demographic biases, such as gender and race bias. To better understand and mitigate this issue, we propose a locate-then-fix strategy, where we audit and show how the individual model component is affected by bias. Our analysis shows that bias originates primarily from the language model. More interestingly, we observe a "partial alignment" phenomenon in U-MLLMs, where understanding bias appears minimal, but generation bias remains substantial. Thus, we propose a novel balanced preference model to balance the demographic distribution with synthetic data. Experiments demonstrate that our approach reduces demographic bias while preserving semantic fidelity. We hope our findings underscore the need for more holistic interpretation and debiasing strategies of U-MLLMs in the future.





## Harnessing Large Language Models for Curated Code Reviews
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03425v1
- **Authors**: ['Oussama Ben Sghaier', 'Martin Weyssow', 'Houari Sahraoui']
- **Abstrat**: In code review, generating structured and relevant comments is crucial for identifying code issues and facilitating accurate code changes that ensure an efficient code review process. Well-crafted comments not only streamline the code review itself but are also essential for subsequent tasks like code refinement, where the code is modified to satisfy the input review comment. Although various AI-based approaches aimed to automate comment generation, their effectiveness remains limited by the quality of the training data. Existing code review datasets are often noisy and unrefined, posing limitations to the learning potential of AI models and hindering the automation process.   To address these challenges, we propose a curation pipeline designed to enhance the quality of the largest publicly available code review dataset. We begin by establishing an evaluation framework, incorporating specific criteria and categories to empirically study the initial quality of the dataset. Using a large language model (LLM)-driven approach, we then apply our curation pipeline to refine the dataset. A comparative analysis of the newly curated dataset, based on the same evaluation framework, demonstrates substantial improvements in the clarity and conciseness of the comments. Additionally, we assess the impact of the curated dataset on automating downstream tasks, specifically comment generation and code refinement. Our findings show that the curated dataset leads to enhanced model performance in generating more accurate comments. Curated comments are also more useful as they lead to more accurate code refinement.





## Think or Step-by-Step? UnZIPping the Black Box in Zero-Shot Prompts
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03418v1
- **Authors**: ['Nikta Gohari Sadr', 'Sangmitra Madhusudan', 'Ali Emami']
- **Abstrat**: Zero-shot prompting techniques have significantly improved the performance of Large Language Models (LLMs). However, we lack a clear understanding of why zero-shot prompts are so effective. For example, in the prompt "Let's think step-by-step," is "think" or "step-by-step" more crucial to its success? Existing interpretability methods, such as gradient-based and attention-based approaches, are computationally intensive and restricted to open-source models. We introduce the ZIP score (Zero-shot Importance of Perturbation score), a versatile metric applicable to both open and closed-source models, based on systematic input word perturbations. Our experiments across four recent LLMs, seven widely-used prompts, and several tasks, reveal interesting patterns in word importance. For instance, while both 'step-by-step' and 'think' show high ZIP scores, which one is more influential depends on the model and task. We validate our method using controlled experiments and compare our results with human judgments, finding that proprietary models align more closely with human intuition regarding word significance. These findings enhance our understanding of LLM behavior and contribute to developing more effective zero-shot prompts and improved model analysis.




