# large language model
## SwiftSketch: A Diffusion Model for Image-to-Vector Sketch Generation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.08642v1
- **Authors**: ['Ellie Arar', 'Yarden Frenkel', 'Daniel Cohen-Or', 'Ariel Shamir', 'Yael Vinker']
- **Abstrat**: Recent advancements in large vision-language models have enabled highly expressive and diverse vector sketch generation. However, state-of-the-art methods rely on a time-consuming optimization process involving repeated feedback from a pretrained model to determine stroke placement. Consequently, despite producing impressive sketches, these methods are limited in practical applications. In this work, we introduce SwiftSketch, a diffusion model for image-conditioned vector sketch generation that can produce high-quality sketches in less than a second. SwiftSketch operates by progressively denoising stroke control points sampled from a Gaussian distribution. Its transformer-decoder architecture is designed to effectively handle the discrete nature of vector representation and capture the inherent global dependencies between strokes. To train SwiftSketch, we construct a synthetic dataset of image-sketch pairs, addressing the limitations of existing sketch datasets, which are often created by non-artists and lack professional quality. For generating these synthetic sketches, we introduce ControlSketch, a method that enhances SDS-based techniques by incorporating precise spatial control through a depth-aware ControlNet. We demonstrate that SwiftSketch generalizes across diverse concepts, efficiently producing sketches that combine high fidelity with a natural and visually appealing style.





## Examining Multilingual Embedding Models Cross-Lingually Through LLM-Generated Adversarial Examples
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.08638v1
- **Authors**: ['Andrianos Michail', 'Simon Clematide', 'Rico Sennrich']
- **Abstrat**: The evaluation of cross-lingual semantic search capabilities of models is often limited to existing datasets from tasks such as information retrieval and semantic textual similarity. To allow for domain-specific evaluation, we introduce Cross Lingual Semantic Discrimination (CLSD), a novel cross-lingual semantic search task that requires only a set of parallel sentence pairs of the language pair of interest within the target domain. This task focuses on the ability of a model to cross-lingually rank the true parallel sentence higher than hard negatives generated by a large language model. We create four instances of our introduced CLSD task for the language pair German-French within the domain of news. Within this case study, we find that models that are also fine-tuned for retrieval tasks (e.g., multilingual E5) benefit from using English as the pivot language, while bitext mining models such as LaBSE perform best directly cross-lingually. We also show a fine-grained similarity analysis enabled by our distractor generation strategy, indicating that different embedding models are sensitive to different types of perturbations.





## Ensemble based approach to quantifying uncertainty of LLM based classifications
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.08631v1
- **Authors**: ['Srijith Rajamohan', 'Ahmed Salhin', 'Josh Frazier', 'Rohit Kumar', 'Yu-Cheng Tsai', 'Todd Cook']
- **Abstrat**: The output of Large Language Models (LLMs) are a function of the internal model's parameters and the input provided into the context window. The hypothesis presented here is that under a greedy sampling strategy the variance in the LLM's output is a function of the conceptual certainty embedded in the model's parametric knowledge, as well as the lexical variance in the input. Finetuning the model results in reducing the sensitivity of the model output to the lexical input variations. This is then applied to a classification problem and a probabilistic method is proposed for estimating the certainties of the predicted classes.





## Ola: Pushing the Frontiers of Omni-Modal Language Model with Progressive Modality Alignment
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04328v2
- **Authors**: ['Zuyan Liu', 'Yuhao Dong', 'Jiahui Wang', 'Ziwei Liu', 'Winston Hu', 'Jiwen Lu', 'Yongming Rao']
- **Abstrat**: Recent advances in large language models, particularly following GPT-4o, have sparked increasing interest in developing omni-modal models capable of understanding more modalities. While some open-source alternatives have emerged, there is still a notable lag behind specialized single-modality models in performance. In this paper, we present Ola, an Omni-modal language model that achieves competitive performance across image, video, and audio understanding compared to specialized counterparts. The core design of Ola lies in its progressive modality alignment strategy that extends the supporting modality of the language model progressively. Our training pipeline begins with the most distinct modalities: image and text, then gradually expands the skill sets of the model using speech data that connects language and audio knowledge, and video data that connects all modalities. The progressive learning pipeline also enables us to maintain a relatively small size of the cross-modal alignment data, making developing omni-modal from existing vision-language models easy and less costly. Moreover, to unlock an advanced interactive experience like GPT-4o, we further design a sentence-wise decoding solution for streaming speech generation. Extensive experiments demonstrate that Ola surpasses existing open omni-modal LLMs across all modalities while achieving highly competitive performance compared to state-of-the-art specialized models of similar sizes. We aim to make Ola a fully open omni-modal understanding solution to advance future research in this emerging field. Model weights, code, and data are open-sourced at https://github.com/Ola-Omni/Ola.





## ARR: Question Answering with Large Language Models via Analyzing, Retrieving, and Reasoning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04689v2
- **Authors**: ['Yuwei Yin', 'Giuseppe Carenini']
- **Abstrat**: Large language models (LLMs) achieve remarkable performance on challenging benchmarks that are often structured as multiple-choice question-answering (QA) tasks. Zero-shot Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting enhances reasoning in LLMs but provides only vague and generic guidance ("think step by step"). This paper introduces ARR, an intuitive and effective zero-shot prompting method that explicitly incorporates three key steps in QA solving: analyzing the intent of the question, retrieving relevant information, and reasoning step by step. Comprehensive experiments across diverse and challenging QA tasks demonstrate that ARR consistently improves the Baseline (without ARR prompting) and outperforms CoT. Ablation and case studies further validate the positive contributions of each component: analyzing, retrieving, and reasoning. Notably, intent analysis plays a vital role in ARR. Additionally, extensive evaluations across various model sizes, LLM series, and generation settings solidify the effectiveness, robustness, and generalizability of ARR.




