# large language model
## Ensemble of Large Language Models for Curated Labeling and Rating of Free-text Data
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.08413v2
- **Authors**: ['Jiaxing Qiu', 'Dongliang Guo', 'Natalie Papini', 'Noelle Peace', 'Cheri A. Levinson', 'Teague R. Henry']
- **Abstrat**: Free-text responses are commonly collected in psychological studies, providing rich qualitative insights that quantitative measures may not capture. Labeling curated topics of research interest in free-text data by multiple trained human coders is typically labor-intensive and time-consuming. Though large language models (LLMs) excel in language processing, LLM-assisted labeling techniques relying on closed-source LLMs cannot be directly applied to free-text data, without explicit consent for external use.   In this study, we propose a framework of assembling locally-deployable LLMs to enhance the labeling of predetermined topics in free-text data under privacy constraints. Analogous to annotation by multiple human raters, this framework leverages the heterogeneity of diverse open-source LLMs. The ensemble approach seeks a balance between the agreement and disagreement across LLMs, guided by a relevancy scoring methodology that utilizes embedding distances between topic descriptions and LLMs' reasoning. We evaluated the ensemble approach using both publicly accessible Reddit data from eating disorder related forums, and free-text responses from eating disorder patients, both complemented by human annotations.   We found that: (1) there is heterogeneity in the performance of labeling among same-sized LLMs, with some showing low sensitivity but high precision, while others exhibit high sensitivity but low precision. (2) Compared to individual LLMs, the ensemble of LLMs achieved the highest accuracy and optimal precision-sensitivity trade-off in predicting human annotations. (3) The relevancy scores across LLMs showed greater agreement than dichotomous labels, indicating that the relevancy scoring method effectively mitigates the heterogeneity in LLMs' labeling.





## Efficiently Democratizing Medical LLMs for 50 Languages via a Mixture of Language Family Experts
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.10626v2
- **Authors**: ['Guorui Zheng', 'Xidong Wang', 'Juhao Liang', 'Nuo Chen', 'Yuping Zheng', 'Benyou Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Adapting medical Large Language Models to local languages can reduce barriers to accessing healthcare services, but data scarcity remains a significant challenge, particularly for low-resource languages. To address this, we first construct a high-quality medical dataset and conduct analysis to ensure its quality. In order to leverage the generalization capability of multilingual LLMs to efficiently scale to more resource-constrained languages, we explore the internal information flow of LLMs from a multilingual perspective using Mixture of Experts (MoE) modularity. Technically, we propose a novel MoE routing method that employs language-specific experts and cross-lingual routing. Inspired by circuit theory, our routing analysis revealed a Spread Out in the End information flow mechanism: while earlier layers concentrate cross-lingual information flow, the later layers exhibit language-specific divergence. This insight directly led to the development of the Post-MoE architecture, which applies sparse routing only in the later layers while maintaining dense others. Experimental results demonstrate that this approach enhances the generalization of multilingual models to other languages while preserving interpretability. Finally, to efficiently scale the model to 50 languages, we introduce the concept of language family experts, drawing on linguistic priors, which enables scaling the number of languages without adding additional parameters.





## Rationalization Models for Text-to-SQL
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.06759v1
- **Authors**: ['Gaetano Rossiello', 'Nhan Pham', 'Michael Glass', 'Junkyu Lee', 'Shankar Subramanian']
- **Abstrat**: We introduce a framework for generating Chain-of-Thought (CoT) rationales to enhance text-to-SQL model fine-tuning. These rationales consist of intermediate SQL statements and explanations, serving as incremental steps toward constructing the final SQL query. The process begins with manually annotating a small set of examples, which are then used to prompt a large language model in an iterative, dynamic few-shot knowledge distillation procedure from a teacher model. A rationalization model is subsequently trained on the validated decomposed queries, enabling extensive synthetic CoT annotations for text-to-SQL datasets. To evaluate the approach, we fine-tune small language models with and without these rationales on the BIRD dataset. Results indicate that step-by-step query generation improves execution accuracy, especially for moderately and highly complex queries, while also enhancing explainability.





## LinkQ: An LLM-Assisted Visual Interface for Knowledge Graph Question-Answering
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.06621v2
- **Authors**: ['Harry Li', 'Gabriel Appleby', 'Ashley Suh']
- **Abstrat**: We present LinkQ, a system that leverages a large language model (LLM) to facilitate knowledge graph (KG) query construction through natural language question-answering. Traditional approaches often require detailed knowledge of a graph querying language, limiting the ability for users -- even experts -- to acquire valuable insights from KGs. LinkQ simplifies this process by implementing a multistep protocol in which the LLM interprets a user's question, then systematically converts it into a well-formed query. LinkQ helps users iteratively refine any open-ended questions into precise ones, supporting both targeted and exploratory analysis. Further, LinkQ guards against the LLM hallucinating outputs by ensuring users' questions are only ever answered from ground truth KG data. We demonstrate the efficacy of LinkQ through a qualitative study with five KG practitioners. Our results indicate that practitioners find LinkQ effective for KG question-answering, and desire future LLM-assisted exploratory data analysis systems.





## Tamper-Resistant Safeguards for Open-Weight LLMs
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.00761v4
- **Authors**: ['Rishub Tamirisa', 'Bhrugu Bharathi', 'Long Phan', 'Andy Zhou', 'Alice Gatti', 'Tarun Suresh', 'Maxwell Lin', 'Justin Wang', 'Rowan Wang', 'Ron Arel', 'Andy Zou', 'Dawn Song', 'Bo Li', 'Dan Hendrycks', 'Mantas Mazeika']
- **Abstrat**: Rapid advances in the capabilities of large language models (LLMs) have raised widespread concerns regarding their potential for malicious use. Open-weight LLMs present unique challenges, as existing safeguards lack robustness to tampering attacks that modify model weights. For example, recent works have demonstrated that refusal and unlearning safeguards can be trivially removed with a few steps of fine-tuning. These vulnerabilities necessitate new approaches for enabling the safe release of open-weight LLMs. We develop a method, called TAR, for building tamper-resistant safeguards into open-weight LLMs such that adversaries cannot remove the safeguards even after hundreds of steps of fine-tuning. In extensive evaluations and red teaming analyses, we find that our method greatly improves tamper-resistance while preserving benign capabilities. Our results demonstrate that progress on tamper-resistance is possible, opening up a promising new avenue to improve the safety and security of open-weight LLMs.





## Gradient Multi-Normalization for Stateless and Scalable LLM Training
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.06742v1
- **Authors**: ['Meyer Scetbon', 'Chao Ma', 'Wenbo Gong', 'Edward Meeds']
- **Abstrat**: Training large language models (LLMs) typically relies on adaptive optimizers like Adam (Kingma & Ba, 2015) which store additional state information to accelerate convergence but incur significant memory overhead. Recent efforts, such as SWAN (Ma et al., 2024) address this by eliminating the need for optimizer states while achieving performance comparable to Adam via a multi-step preprocessing procedure applied to instantaneous gradients. Motivated by the success of SWAN, we introduce a novel framework for designing stateless optimizers that normalizes stochastic gradients according to multiple norms. To achieve this, we propose a simple alternating scheme to enforce the normalization of gradients w.r.t these norms. We show that our procedure can produce, up to an arbitrary precision, a fixed-point of the problem, and that SWAN is a particular instance of our approach with carefully chosen norms, providing a deeper understanding of its design. However, SWAN's computationally expensive whitening/orthogonalization step limit its practicality for large LMs. Using our principled perspective, we develop of a more efficient, scalable, and practical stateless optimizer. Our algorithm relaxes the properties of SWAN, significantly reducing its computational cost while retaining its memory efficiency, making it applicable to training large-scale models. Experiments on pre-training LLaMA models with up to 1 billion parameters demonstrate a 3X speedup over Adam with significantly reduced memory requirements, outperforming other memory-efficient baselines.




