# large language model
## Distilling Multi-modal Large Language Models for Autonomous Driving
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09757v1
- **Authors**: ['Deepti Hegde', 'Rajeev Yasarla', 'Hong Cai', 'Shizhong Han', 'Apratim Bhattacharyya', 'Shweta Mahajan', 'Litian Liu', 'Risheek Garrepalli', 'Vishal M. Patel', 'Fatih Porikli']
- **Abstrat**: Autonomous driving demands safe motion planning, especially in critical "long-tail" scenarios. Recent end-to-end autonomous driving systems leverage large language models (LLMs) as planners to improve generalizability to rare events. However, using LLMs at test time introduces high computational costs. To address this, we propose DiMA, an end-to-end autonomous driving system that maintains the efficiency of an LLM-free (or vision-based) planner while leveraging the world knowledge of an LLM. DiMA distills the information from a multi-modal LLM to a vision-based end-to-end planner through a set of specially designed surrogate tasks. Under a joint training strategy, a scene encoder common to both networks produces structured representations that are semantically grounded as well as aligned to the final planning objective. Notably, the LLM is optional at inference, enabling robust planning without compromising on efficiency. Training with DiMA results in a 37% reduction in the L2 trajectory error and an 80% reduction in the collision rate of the vision-based planner, as well as a 44% trajectory error reduction in longtail scenarios. DiMA also achieves state-of-the-art performance on the nuScenes planning benchmark.





## Lost in Translation, Found in Context: Sign Language Translation with Contextual Cues
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09754v1
- **Authors**: ['Youngjoon Jang', 'Haran Raajesh', 'Liliane Momeni', 'Gül Varol', 'Andrew Zisserman']
- **Abstrat**: Our objective is to translate continuous sign language into spoken language text. Inspired by the way human interpreters rely on context for accurate translation, we incorporate additional contextual cues together with the signing video, into a new translation framework. Specifically, besides visual sign recognition features that encode the input video, we integrate complementary textual information from (i) captions describing the background show, (ii) translation of previous sentences, as well as (iii) pseudo-glosses transcribing the signing. These are automatically extracted and inputted along with the visual features to a pre-trained large language model (LLM), which we fine-tune to generate spoken language translations in text form. Through extensive ablation studies, we show the positive contribution of each input cue to the translation performance. We train and evaluate our approach on BOBSL --the largest British Sign Language dataset currently available. We show that our contextual approach significantly enhances the quality of the translations compared to previously reported results on BOBSL, and also to state-of-the-art methods that we implement as baselines. Furthermore, we demonstrate the generality of our approach by applying it also to How2Sign, an American Sign Language dataset, and achieve competitive results.





## OmniThink: Expanding Knowledge Boundaries in Machine Writing through Thinking
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09751v1
- **Authors**: ['Zekun Xi', 'Wenbiao Yin', 'Jizhan Fang', 'Jialong Wu', 'Runnan Fang', 'Ningyu Zhang', 'Jiang Yong', 'Pengjun Xie', 'Fei Huang', 'Huajun Chen']
- **Abstrat**: Machine writing with large language models often relies on retrieval-augmented generation. However, these approaches remain confined within the boundaries of the model's predefined scope, limiting the generation of content with rich information. Specifically, vanilla-retrieved information tends to lack depth, utility, and suffers from redundancy, which negatively impacts the quality of generated articles, leading to shallow, repetitive, and unoriginal outputs. To address these issues, we propose OmniThink, a machine writing framework that emulates the human-like process of iterative expansion and reflection. The core idea behind OmniThink is to simulate the cognitive behavior of learners as they progressively deepen their knowledge of the topics. Experimental results demonstrate that OmniThink improves the knowledge density of generated articles without compromising metrics such as coherence and depth. Human evaluations and expert feedback further highlight the potential of OmniThink to address real-world challenges in the generation of long-form articles.





## Enhancing Lexicon-Based Text Embeddings with Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09749v1
- **Authors**: ['Yibin Lei', 'Tao Shen', 'Yu Cao', 'Andrew Yates']
- **Abstrat**: Recent large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated exceptional performance on general-purpose text embedding tasks. While dense embeddings have dominated related research, we introduce the first Lexicon-based EmbeddiNgS (LENS) leveraging LLMs that achieve competitive performance on these tasks. Regarding the inherent tokenization redundancy issue and unidirectional attention limitations in traditional causal LLMs, LENS consolidates the vocabulary space through token embedding clustering, and investigates bidirectional attention and various pooling strategies. Specifically, LENS simplifies lexicon matching by assigning each dimension to a specific token cluster, where semantically similar tokens are grouped together, and unlocking the full potential of LLMs through bidirectional attention. Extensive experiments demonstrate that LENS outperforms dense embeddings on the Massive Text Embedding Benchmark (MTEB), delivering compact feature representations that match the sizes of dense counterparts. Notably, combining LENSE with dense embeddings achieves state-of-the-art performance on the retrieval subset of MTEB (i.e. BEIR).





## Meaning-Typed Programming: Language-level Abstractions and Runtime for GenAI Applications
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.08965v3
- **Authors**: ['Jason Mars', 'Yiping Kang', 'Jayanaka L. Dantanarayana', 'Kugesan Sivasothynathan', 'Christopher Clarke', 'Baichuan Li', 'Krisztian Flautner', 'Lingjia Tang']
- **Abstrat**: Software is rapidly evolving from being programmed with traditional logical code, to neuro-integrated applications that leverage generative AI and large language models (LLMs) for application functionality. This shift increases the complexity of building applications, as developers now must reasoning about, program, and prompt LLMs. Despite efforts to create tools to assist with prompt engineering, these solutions often introduce additional layers of complexity to the development of neuro-integrated applications. This paper proposes meaning-typed programming (MTP), a novel approach to simplify the creation of neuro-integrated applications by introducing new language-level abstractions that hide the complexities of LLM integration. Our key insight is that typical conventional code already possesses a high level of semantic richness that can be automatically reasoned about, as it is designed to be readable and maintainable by humans. Leveraging this insight, we conceptualize LLMs as meaning-typed code constructs and introduce a by abstraction at the language level, MT-IR, a new meaning-based intermediate representation at the compiler level, and MT Runtime, an automated run-time engine for LLM integration and operations. We implement MTP in a production-grade Python super-set language called Jac and perform an extensive evaluation. Our results demonstrate that MTP not only simplifies the development process but also meets or exceeds the efficacy of state-of-the-art manual and tool-assisted prompt engineering techniques in terms of accuracy and usability.





## Suggesting Code Edits in Interactive Machine Learning Notebooks Using Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09745v1
- **Authors**: ['Bihui Jin', 'Jiayue Wang', 'Pengyu Nie']
- **Abstrat**: Machine learning developers frequently use interactive computational notebooks, such as Jupyter notebooks, to host code for data processing and model training. Jupyter notebooks provide a convenient tool for writing machine learning pipelines and interactively observing outputs, however, maintaining Jupyter notebooks, e.g., to add new features or fix bugs, can be challenging due to the length and complexity of the notebooks. Moreover, there is no existing benchmark related to developer edits on Jupyter notebooks. To address this, we present the first dataset of 48,398 Jupyter notebook edits derived from 20,095 revisions of 792 machine learning repositories on GitHub, and perform the first study of the using LLMs to predict code edits in Jupyter notebooks. Our dataset captures granular details of cell-level and line-level modifications, offering a foundation for understanding real-world maintenance patterns in machine learning workflows. We observed that the edits on Jupyter notebooks are highly localized, with changes averaging only 166 lines of code in repositories. While larger models outperform smaller counterparts in code editing, all models have low accuracy on our dataset even after finetuning, demonstrating the complexity of real-world machine learning maintenance tasks. Our findings emphasize the critical role of contextual information in improving model performance and point toward promising avenues for advancing large language models' capabilities in engineering machine learning code.





## Inference-Time Scaling for Diffusion Models beyond Scaling Denoising Steps
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09732v1
- **Authors**: ['Nanye Ma', 'Shangyuan Tong', 'Haolin Jia', 'Hexiang Hu', 'Yu-Chuan Su', 'Mingda Zhang', 'Xuan Yang', 'Yandong Li', 'Tommi Jaakkola', 'Xuhui Jia', 'Saining Xie']
- **Abstrat**: Generative models have made significant impacts across various domains, largely due to their ability to scale during training by increasing data, computational resources, and model size, a phenomenon characterized by the scaling laws. Recent research has begun to explore inference-time scaling behavior in Large Language Models (LLMs), revealing how performance can further improve with additional computation during inference. Unlike LLMs, diffusion models inherently possess the flexibility to adjust inference-time computation via the number of denoising steps, although the performance gains typically flatten after a few dozen. In this work, we explore the inference-time scaling behavior of diffusion models beyond increasing denoising steps and investigate how the generation performance can further improve with increased computation. Specifically, we consider a search problem aimed at identifying better noises for the diffusion sampling process. We structure the design space along two axes: the verifiers used to provide feedback, and the algorithms used to find better noise candidates. Through extensive experiments on class-conditioned and text-conditioned image generation benchmarks, our findings reveal that increasing inference-time compute leads to substantial improvements in the quality of samples generated by diffusion models, and with the complicated nature of images, combinations of the components in the framework can be specifically chosen to conform with different application scenario.





## NL2KQL: From Natural Language to Kusto Query
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.02933v3
- **Authors**: ['Xinye Tang', 'Amir H. Abdi', 'Jeremias Eichelbaum', 'Mahan Das', 'Alex Klein', 'Nihal Irmak Pakis', 'William Blum', 'Daniel L Mace', 'Tanvi Raja', 'Namrata Padmanabhan', 'Ye Xing']
- **Abstrat**: Data is growing rapidly in volume and complexity. Proficiency in database query languages is pivotal for crafting effective queries. As coding assistants become more prevalent, there is significant opportunity to enhance database query languages. The Kusto Query Language (KQL) is a widely used query language for large semi-structured data such as logs, telemetries, and time-series for big data analytics platforms. This paper introduces NL2KQL an innovative framework that uses large language models (LLMs) to convert natural language queries (NLQs) to KQL queries. The proposed NL2KQL framework includes several key components: Schema Refiner which narrows down the schema to its most pertinent elements; the Few-shot Selector which dynamically selects relevant examples from a few-shot dataset; and the Query Refiner which repairs syntactic and semantic errors in KQL queries. Additionally, this study outlines a method for generating large datasets of synthetic NLQ-KQL pairs which are valid within a specific database contexts. To validate NL2KQL's performance, we utilize an array of online (based on query execution) and offline (based on query parsing) metrics. Through ablation studies, the significance of each framework component is examined, and the datasets used for benchmarking are made publicly available. This work is the first of its kind and is compared with available baselines to demonstrate its effectiveness.




