# large language model
## Wikipedia in the Era of LLMs: Evolution and Risks
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02879v1
- **Authors**: ['Siming Huang', 'Yuliang Xu', 'Mingmeng Geng', 'Yao Wan', 'Dongping Chen']
- **Abstrat**: In this paper, we present a thorough analysis of the impact of Large Language Models (LLMs) on Wikipedia, examining the evolution of Wikipedia through existing data and using simulations to explore potential risks. We begin by analyzing page views and article content to study Wikipedia's recent changes and assess the impact of LLMs. Subsequently, we evaluate how LLMs affect various Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks related to Wikipedia, including machine translation and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG). Our findings and simulation results reveal that Wikipedia articles have been influenced by LLMs, with an impact of approximately 1%-2% in certain categories. If the machine translation benchmark based on Wikipedia is influenced by LLMs, the scores of the models may become inflated, and the comparative results among models might shift as well. Moreover, the effectiveness of RAG might decrease if the knowledge base becomes polluted by LLM-generated content. While LLMs have not yet fully changed Wikipedia's language and knowledge structures, we believe that our empirical findings signal the need for careful consideration of potential future risks.





## The First Few Tokens Are All You Need: An Efficient and Effective Unsupervised Prefix Fine-Tuning Method for Reasoning Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02875v1
- **Authors**: ['Ke Ji', 'Jiahao Xu', 'Tian Liang', 'Qiuzhi Liu', 'Zhiwei He', 'Xingyu Chen', 'Xiaoyuan Liu', 'Zhijie Wang', 'Junying Chen', 'Benyou Wang', 'Zhaopeng Tu', 'Haitao Mi', 'Dong Yu']
- **Abstrat**: Improving the reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs) typically requires supervised fine-tuning with labeled data or computationally expensive sampling. We introduce Unsupervised Prefix Fine-Tuning (UPFT), which leverages the observation of Prefix Self-Consistency -- the shared initial reasoning steps across diverse solution trajectories -- to enhance LLM reasoning efficiency. By training exclusively on the initial prefix substrings (as few as 8 tokens), UPFT removes the need for labeled data or exhaustive sampling. Experiments on reasoning benchmarks show that UPFT matches the performance of supervised methods such as Rejection Sampling Fine-Tuning, while reducing training time by 75% and sampling cost by 99%. Further analysis reveals that errors tend to appear in later stages of the reasoning process and that prefix-based training preserves the model's structural knowledge. This work demonstrates how minimal unsupervised fine-tuning can unlock substantial reasoning gains in LLMs, offering a scalable and resource-efficient alternative to conventional approaches.





## Prompting Generative AI with Interaction-Augmented Instructions
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02874v1
- **Authors**: ['Leixian Shen', 'Haotian Li', 'Yifang Wang', 'Xing Xie', 'Huamin Qu']
- **Abstrat**: The emergence of generative AI (GenAI) models, including large language models and text-to-image models, has significantly advanced the synergy between humans and AI with not only their outstanding capability but more importantly, the intuitive communication method with text prompts. Though intuitive, text-based instructions suffer from natural languages' ambiguous and redundant nature. To address the issue, researchers have explored augmenting text-based instructions with interactions that facilitate precise and effective human intent expression, such as direct manipulation. However, the design strategy of interaction-augmented instructions lacks systematic investigation, hindering our understanding and application. To provide a panorama of interaction-augmented instructions, we propose a framework to analyze related tools from why, when, who, what, and how interactions are applied to augment text-based instructions. Notably, we identify four purposes for applying interactions, including restricting, expanding, organizing, and refining text instructions. The design paradigms for each purpose are also summarized to benefit future researchers and practitioners.





## VILA-M3: Enhancing Vision-Language Models with Medical Expert Knowledge
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.12915v3
- **Authors**: ['Vishwesh Nath', 'Wenqi Li', 'Dong Yang', 'Andriy Myronenko', 'Mingxin Zheng', 'Yao Lu', 'Zhijian Liu', 'Hongxu Yin', 'Yucheng Tang', 'Pengfei Guo', 'Can Zhao', 'Ziyue Xu', 'Yufan He', 'Greg Heinrich', 'Yee Man Law', 'Benjamin Simon', 'Stephanie Harmon', 'Stephen Aylward', 'Marc Edgar', 'Michael Zephyr', 'Song Han', 'Pavlo Molchanov', 'Baris Turkbey', 'Holger Roth', 'Daguang Xu']
- **Abstrat**: Generalist vision language models (VLMs) have made significant strides in computer vision, but they fall short in specialized fields like healthcare, where expert knowledge is essential. In traditional computer vision tasks, creative or approximate answers may be acceptable, but in healthcare, precision is paramount.Current large multimodal models like Gemini and GPT-4o are insufficient for medical tasks due to their reliance on memorized internet knowledge rather than the nuanced expertise required in healthcare. VLMs are usually trained in three stages: vision pre-training, vision-language pre-training, and instruction fine-tuning (IFT). IFT has been typically applied using a mixture of generic and healthcare data. In contrast, we propose that for medical VLMs, a fourth stage of specialized IFT is necessary, which focuses on medical data and includes information from domain expert models. Domain expert models developed for medical use are crucial because they are specifically trained for certain clinical tasks, e.g. to detect tumors and classify abnormalities through segmentation and classification, which learn fine-grained features of medical data$-$features that are often too intricate for a VLM to capture effectively especially in radiology. This paper introduces a new framework, VILA-M3, for medical VLMs that utilizes domain knowledge via expert models. Through our experiments, we show an improved state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance with an average improvement of ~9% over the prior SOTA model Med-Gemini and ~6% over models trained on the specific tasks. Our approach emphasizes the importance of domain expertise in creating precise, reliable VLMs for medical applications.





## VOILA: Evaluation of MLLMs For Perceptual Understanding and Analogical Reasoning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.00043v2
- **Authors**: ['Nilay Yilmaz', 'Maitreya Patel', 'Yiran Lawrence Luo', 'Tejas Gokhale', 'Chitta Baral', 'Suren Jayasuriya', 'Yezhou Yang']
- **Abstrat**: Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) have become a powerful tool for integrating visual and textual information. Despite their exceptional performance on visual understanding benchmarks, measuring their ability to reason abstractly across multiple images remains a significant challenge. To address this, we introduce VOILA, a large-scale, open-ended, dynamic benchmark designed to evaluate MLLMs' perceptual understanding and abstract relational reasoning. VOILA employs an analogical mapping approach in the visual domain, requiring models to generate an image that completes an analogy between two given image pairs, reference and application, without relying on predefined choices. Our experiments demonstrate that the analogical reasoning tasks in VOILA present a challenge to MLLMs. Through multi-step analysis, we reveal that current MLLMs struggle to comprehend inter-image relationships and exhibit limited capabilities in high-level relational reasoning. Notably, we observe that performance improves when following a multi-step strategy of least-to-most prompting. Comprehensive evaluations on open-source models and GPT-4o show that on text-based answers, the best accuracy for challenging scenarios is 13% (LLaMa 3.2) and even for simpler tasks is only 29% (GPT-4o), while human performance is significantly higher at 70% across both difficulty levels.





## Beyond the Lens: Quantifying the Impact of Scientific Documentaries through Amazon Reviews
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.08705v2
- **Authors**: ['Jill Naiman', 'Aria Pessianzadeh', 'Hanyu Zhao', 'AJ Christensen', 'Kalina Borkiewicz', 'Shriya Srikanth', 'Anushka Gami', 'Emma Maxwell', 'Louisa Zhang', 'Sri Nithya Yeragorla', 'Rezvaneh Rezapour']
- **Abstrat**: Engaging the public with science is critical for a well-informed population. A popular method of scientific communication is documentaries. Once released, it can be difficult to assess the impact of such works on a large scale, due to the overhead required for in-depth audience feedback studies. In what follows, we overview our complementary approach to qualitative studies through quantitative impact and sentiment analysis of Amazon reviews for several scientific documentaries. In addition to developing a novel impact category taxonomy for this analysis, we release a dataset containing 1296 human-annotated sentences from 1043 Amazon reviews for six movies created in whole or part by the Advanced Visualization Lab (AVL). This interdisciplinary team is housed at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications and consists of visualization designers who focus on cinematic presentations of scientific data. Using this data, we train and evaluate several machine learning and large language models, discussing their effectiveness and possible generalizability for documentaries beyond those focused on for this work. Themes are also extracted from our annotated dataset which, along with our large language model analysis, demonstrate a measure of the ability of scientific documentaries to engage with the public.





## FairSense-AI: Responsible AI Meets Sustainability
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02865v1
- **Authors**: ['Shaina Raza', 'Mukund Sayeeganesh Chettiar', 'Matin Yousefabadi', 'Tahniat Khan', 'Marcelo Lotif']
- **Abstrat**: In this paper, we introduce FairSense-AI: a multimodal framework designed to detect and mitigate bias in both text and images. By leveraging Large Language Models (LLMs) and Vision-Language Models (VLMs), FairSense-AI uncovers subtle forms of prejudice or stereotyping that can appear in content, providing users with bias scores, explanatory highlights, and automated recommendations for fairness enhancements. In addition, FairSense-AI integrates an AI risk assessment component that aligns with frameworks like the MIT AI Risk Repository and NIST AI Risk Management Framework, enabling structured identification of ethical and safety concerns. The platform is optimized for energy efficiency via techniques such as model pruning and mixed-precision computation, thereby reducing its environmental footprint. Through a series of case studies and applications, we demonstrate how FairSense-AI promotes responsible AI use by addressing both the social dimension of fairness and the pressing need for sustainability in large-scale AI deployments. https://vectorinstitute.github.io/FairSense-AI, https://pypi.org/project/fair-sense-ai/





## Calibrating LLM Confidence with Semantic Steering: A Multi-Prompt Aggregation Framework
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02863v1
- **Authors**: ['Ziang Zhou', 'Tianyuan Jin', 'Jieming Shi', 'Qing Li']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) often exhibit misaligned confidence scores, usually overestimating the reliability of their predictions. While verbalized confidence in Large Language Models (LLMs) has gained attention, prior work remains divided on whether confidence scores can be systematically steered through prompting. Recent studies even argue that such prompt-induced confidence shifts are negligible, suggesting LLMs' confidence calibration is rigid to linguistic interventions. Contrary to these claims, we first rigorously confirm the existence of directional confidence shifts by probing three models (including GPT3.5, LLAMA3-70b, GPT4) across 7 benchmarks, demonstrating that explicit instructions can inflate or deflate confidence scores in a regulated manner. Based on this observation, we propose a novel framework containing three components: confidence steering, steered confidence aggregation and steered answers selection, named SteeringConf. Our method, SteeringConf, leverages a confidence manipulation mechanism to steer the confidence scores of LLMs in several desired directions, followed by a summarization module that aggregates the steered confidence scores to produce a final prediction. We evaluate our method on 7 benchmarks and it consistently outperforms the baselines in terms of calibration metrics in task of confidence calibration and failure detection.





## Privacy and Accuracy-Aware AI/ML Model Deduplication
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02862v1
- **Authors**: ['Hong Guan', 'Lei Yu', 'Lixi Zhou', 'Li Xiong', 'Kanchan Chowdhury', 'Lulu Xie', 'Xusheng Xiao', 'Jia Zou']
- **Abstrat**: With the growing adoption of privacy-preserving machine learning algorithms, such as Differentially Private Stochastic Gradient Descent (DP-SGD), training or fine-tuning models on private datasets has become increasingly prevalent. This shift has led to the need for models offering varying privacy guarantees and utility levels to satisfy diverse user requirements. However, managing numerous versions of large models introduces significant operational challenges, including increased inference latency, higher resource consumption, and elevated costs. Model deduplication is a technique widely used by many model serving and database systems to support high-performance and low-cost inference queries and model diagnosis queries. However, none of the existing model deduplication works has considered privacy, leading to unbounded aggregation of privacy costs for certain deduplicated models and inefficiencies when applied to deduplicate DP-trained models. We formalize the problems of deduplicating DP-trained models for the first time and propose a novel privacy-and accuracy-aware deduplication mechanism to address the problems. We developed a greedy strategy to select and assign base models to target models to minimize storage and privacy costs. When deduplicating a target model, we dynamically schedule accuracy validations and apply the Sparse Vector Technique to reduce the privacy costs associated with private validation data. Compared to baselines that do not provide privacy guarantees, our approach improved the compression ratio by up to $35\times$ for individual models (including large language models and vision transformers). We also observed up to $43\times$ inference speedup due to the reduction of I/O operations.





## Shakespearean Sparks: The Dance of Hallucination and Creativity in LLMs' Decoding Layers
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02851v1
- **Authors**: ['Zicong He', 'Boxuan Zhang', 'Lu Cheng']
- **Abstrat**: Large language models (LLMs) are known to hallucinate, a phenomenon often linked to creativity. While previous research has primarily explored this connection through theoretical or qualitative lenses, our work takes a quantitative approach to systematically examine the relationship between hallucination and creativity in LLMs. Given the complex nature of creativity, we propose a narrow definition tailored to LLMs and introduce an evaluation framework, HCL, which quantifies Hallucination and Creativity across different Layers of LLMs during decoding. Our empirical analysis reveals a tradeoff between hallucination and creativity that is consistent across layer depth, model type, and model size. Notably, across different model architectures, we identify a specific layer at each model size that optimally balances this tradeoff. Additionally, the optimal layer tends to appear in the early layers of larger models, and the confidence of the model is also significantly higher at this layer. These findings provide a quantitative perspective that offers new insights into the interplay between LLM creativity and hallucination. The code and data for our experiments are available at https://github.com/ZicongHe2002/HCL-Spark.





## Mask-DPO: Generalizable Fine-grained Factuality Alignment of LLMs
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02846v1
- **Authors**: ['Yuzhe Gu', 'Wenwei Zhang', 'Chengqi Lyu', 'Dahua Lin', 'Kai Chen']
- **Abstrat**: Large language models (LLMs) exhibit hallucinations (i.e., unfaithful or nonsensical information) when serving as AI assistants in various domains. Since hallucinations always come with truthful content in the LLM responses, previous factuality alignment methods that conduct response-level preference learning inevitably introduced noises during training. Therefore, this paper proposes a fine-grained factuality alignment method based on Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), called Mask-DPO. Incorporating sentence-level factuality as mask signals, Mask-DPO only learns from factually correct sentences in the preferred samples and prevents the penalty on factual contents in the not preferred samples, which resolves the ambiguity in the preference learning. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that Mask-DPO can significantly improve the factuality of LLMs responses to questions from both in-domain and out-of-domain datasets, although these questions and their corresponding topics are unseen during training. Only trained on the ANAH train set, the score of Llama3.1-8B-Instruct on the ANAH test set is improved from 49.19% to 77.53%, even surpassing the score of Llama3.1-70B-Instruct (53.44%), while its FactScore on the out-of-domain Biography dataset is also improved from 30.29% to 39.39%. We further study the generalization property of Mask-DPO using different training sample scaling strategies and find that scaling the number of topics in the dataset is more effective than the number of questions. We provide a hypothesis of what factual alignment is doing with LLMs, on the implication of this phenomenon, and conduct proof-of-concept experiments to verify it. We hope the method and the findings pave the way for future research on scaling factuality alignment.





## Beyond Cosine Decay: On the effectiveness of Infinite Learning Rate Schedule for Continual Pre-training
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02844v1
- **Authors**: ['Paul Janson', 'Vaibhav Singh', 'Paria Mehrbod', 'Adam Ibrahim', 'Irina Rish', 'Eugene Belilovsky', 'Benjamin Thérien']
- **Abstrat**: The ever-growing availability of unlabeled data presents both opportunities and challenges for training artificial intelligence systems. While self-supervised learning (SSL) has emerged as a powerful paradigm for extracting meaningful representations from vast amounts of unlabeled data, existing methods still struggle to adapt to the non-stationary, non-IID nature of real-world data streams without forgetting previously learned knowledge. Recent works have adopted a repeated cosine annealing schedule for large-scale continual pre-training; however, these schedules (1) inherently cause forgetting during the re-warming phase and (2) have not been systematically compared to existing continual SSL methods. In this work, we systematically compare the widely used cosine schedule with the recently proposed infinite learning rate schedule and empirically find the latter to be a more effective alternative. Our extensive empirical evaluation across diverse image and language datasets demonstrates that the infinite learning rate schedule consistently enhances continual pre-training performance compared to a repeated cosine decay without being restricted to a fixed iteration budget. For instance, in a small-scale MAE pre-training setup, it outperforms several strong baselines from the literature. We then scale up our experiments to larger MAE pre-training and autoregressive language model pre-training. Our results show that the infinite learning rate schedule remains effective at scale, surpassing repeated cosine decay for both MAE pre-training and zero-shot LM benchmarks.





## LABIIUM: AI-Enhanced Zero-configuration Measurement Automation System
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16172v2
- **Authors**: ['Emmanuel A. Olowe', 'Danial Chitnis']
- **Abstrat**: The complexity of laboratory environments requires solutions that simplify instrument interaction and enhance measurement automation. Traditional tools often require configuration, software, and programming skills, creating barriers to productivity. Previous approaches, including dedicated software suites and custom scripts, frequently fall short in providing user-friendly solutions that align with programming practices. We present LABIIUM, an AI-enhanced, zero-configuration measurement automation system designed to streamline experimental workflows and improve user productivity. LABIIUM integrates an AI assistant powered by Large Language Models (LLMs) to generate code. LABIIUM's Lab-Automation-Measurement Bridges (LAMBs) enable seamless instrument connectivity using standard tools such as VSCode and Python, eliminating setup overhead. To demonstrate its capabilities, we conducted experiments involving the measurement of the parametric transfer curve of a simple two-transistor inverting amplifier with a current source load. The AI assistant was evaluated using different prompt scenarios and compared with multiple models, including Claude Sonnet 3.5, Gemini Pro 1.5, and GPT-4o. An expert solution implementing the Gradient-Weighted Adaptive Stochastic Sampling (GWASS) method was used as a baseline. The solutions generated by the AI assistant were compared with the expert solution and a uniform linear sweep baseline with 10,000 points. The graph results show that the LLMs were able to successfully complete the most basic uniform sweep, but LLMs were unable to develop adaptive sweeping algorithms to compete with GWASS. The evaluation underscores LABIIUM's ability to enhance laboratory productivity and support digital transformation in research and industry, and emphasizes the future work required to improve LLM performance in Electronic Measurement Science Tasks.





## Layer Swapping for Zero-Shot Cross-Lingual Transfer in Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.01335v2
- **Authors**: ['Lucas Bandarkar', 'Benjamin Muller', 'Pritish Yuvraj', 'Rui Hou', 'Nayan Singhal', 'Hongjiang Lv', 'Bing Liu']
- **Abstrat**: Model merging, such as model souping, is the practice of combining different models with the same architecture together without further training. In this work, we present a model merging methodology that addresses the difficulty of fine-tuning Large Language Models (LLMs) for target tasks in non-English languages, where task-specific data is often unavailable. We focus on mathematical reasoning and without in-language math data, facilitate cross-lingual transfer by composing language and math capabilities. Starting from the same pretrained model, we fine-tune separate "experts" on math instruction data in English and on generic instruction data in the target language. We then replace the top and bottom transformer layers of the math expert directly with layers from the language expert, which consequently enhances math performance in the target language. The resulting merged models outperform the individual experts and other merging methods on the math benchmark, MGSM, by 10% across four major languages where math instruction data is scarce. In addition, this layer swapping is simple, inexpensive, and intuitive, as it is based on an interpretative analysis of the most important parameter changes during the fine-tuning of each expert. The ability to successfully re-compose LLMs for cross-lingual transfer in this manner opens up future possibilities to combine model expertise, create modular solutions, and transfer reasoning capabilities across languages all post hoc.





## Verbalized Probabilistic Graphical Modeling
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.05516v3
- **Authors**: ['Hengguan Huang', 'Xing Shen', 'Songtao Wang', 'Lingfa Meng', 'Dianbo Liu', 'Hao Wang', 'Samir Bhatt']
- **Abstrat**: Human cognition excels at transcending sensory input and forming latent representations that structure our understanding of the world. Although Large Language Models (LLMs) can produce chain-of-thought reasoning, they lack a principled framework to capture latent structures and model uncertainty, especially in compositional reasoning tasks. We propose Verbalized Probabilistic Graphical Modeling (vPGM), a Bayesian prompting framework that guides LLMs to simulate key principles of Probabilistic Graphical Models (PGMs) in natural language. Unlike many traditional probabilistic methods requiring substantial domain expertise or specialized training, vPGM bypasses expert-driven model design, making it well-suited for scenarios with limited assumptions or scarce data. We evaluated our model on several compositional reasoning tasks, both close-ended and open-ended. Our results indicate that the model effectively enhances confidence calibration and text generation quality.




