# large language model
## Re-ranking the Context for Multimodal Retrieval Augmented Generation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04695v1
- **Authors**: ['Matin Mortaheb', 'Mohammad A. Amir Khojastepour', 'Srimat T. Chakradhar', 'Sennur Ulukus']
- **Abstrat**: Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) enhances large language models (LLMs) by incorporating external knowledge to generate a response within a context with improved accuracy and reduced hallucinations. However, multi-modal RAG systems face unique challenges: (i) the retrieval process may select irrelevant entries to user query (e.g., images, documents), and (ii) vision-language models or multi-modal language models like GPT-4o may hallucinate when processing these entries to generate RAG output. In this paper, we aim to address the first challenge, i.e, improving the selection of relevant context from the knowledge-base in retrieval phase of the multi-modal RAG. Specifically, we leverage the relevancy score (RS) measure designed in our previous work for evaluating the RAG performance to select more relevant entries in retrieval process. The retrieval based on embeddings, say CLIP-based embedding, and cosine similarity usually perform poorly particularly for multi-modal data. We show that by using a more advanced relevancy measure, one can enhance the retrieval process by selecting more relevant pieces from the knowledge-base and eliminate the irrelevant pieces from the context by adaptively selecting up-to-$k$ entries instead of fixed number of entries. Our evaluation using COCO dataset demonstrates significant enhancement in selecting relevant context and accuracy of the generated response.





## Beyond Sight: Finetuning Generalist Robot Policies with Heterogeneous Sensors via Language Grounding
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04693v1
- **Authors**: ['Joshua Jones', 'Oier Mees', 'Carmelo Sferrazza', 'Kyle Stachowicz', 'Pieter Abbeel', 'Sergey Levine']
- **Abstrat**: Interacting with the world is a multi-sensory experience: achieving effective general-purpose interaction requires making use of all available modalities --including vision, touch, and audio -- to fill in gaps from partial observation. For example, when vision is occluded reaching into a bag, a robot should rely on its senses of touch and sound. However, state-of-the-art generalist robot policies are typically trained on large datasets to predict robot actions solely from visual and proprioceptive observations. In this work, we propose FuSe, a novel approach that enables finetuning visuomotor generalist policies on heterogeneous sensor modalities for which large datasets are not readily available by leveraging natural language as a common cross-modal grounding. We combine a multimodal contrastive loss with a sensory-grounded language generation loss to encode high-level semantics. In the context of robot manipulation, we show that FuSe enables performing challenging tasks that require reasoning jointly over modalities such as vision, touch, and sound in a zero-shot setting, such as multimodal prompting, compositional cross-modal prompting, and descriptions of objects it interacts with. We show that the same recipe is applicable to widely different generalist policies, including both diffusion-based generalist policies and large vision-language-action (VLA) models. Extensive experiments in the real world show that FuSeis able to increase success rates by over 20% compared to all considered baselines.





## URSA: Understanding and Verifying Chain-of-thought Reasoning in Multimodal Mathematics
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04686v1
- **Authors**: ['Ruilin Luo', 'Zhuofan Zheng', 'Yifan Wang', 'Yiyao Yu', 'Xinzhe Ni', 'Zicheng Lin', 'Jin Zeng', 'Yujiu Yang']
- **Abstrat**: Chain-of-thought (CoT) reasoning has been widely applied in the mathematical reasoning of Large Language Models (LLMs). Recently, the introduction of derivative process supervision on CoT trajectories has sparked discussions on enhancing scaling capabilities during test time, thereby boosting the potential of these models. However, in multimodal mathematical reasoning, the scarcity of high-quality CoT training data has hindered existing models from achieving high-precision CoT reasoning and has limited the realization of reasoning potential during test time. In this work, we propose a three-module synthesis strategy that integrates CoT distillation, trajectory-format rewriting, and format unification. It results in a high-quality CoT reasoning instruction fine-tuning dataset in multimodal mathematics, MMathCoT-1M. We comprehensively validate the state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance of the trained URSA-7B model on multiple multimodal mathematical benchmarks. For test-time scaling, we introduce a data synthesis strategy that automatically generates process annotation datasets, known as DualMath-1.1M, focusing on both interpretation and logic. By further training URSA-7B on DualMath-1.1M, we transition from CoT reasoning capabilities to robust supervision abilities. The trained URSA-RM-7B acts as a verifier, effectively enhancing the performance of URSA-7B at test time. URSA-RM-7B also demonstrates excellent out-of-distribution (OOD) verifying capabilities, showcasing its generalization. Model weights, training data and code will be open-sourced.





## Enhancing Financial VQA in Vision Language Models using Intermediate Structured Representations
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04675v1
- **Authors**: ['Archita Srivastava', 'Abhas Kumar', 'Rajesh Kumar', 'Prabhakar Srinivasan']
- **Abstrat**: Chart interpretation is crucial for visual data analysis, but accurately extracting information from charts poses significant challenges for automated models. This study investigates the fine-tuning of DEPLOT, a modality conversion module that translates the image of a plot or chart to a linearized table, on a custom dataset of 50,000 bar charts. The dataset comprises simple, stacked, and grouped bar charts, targeting the unique structural features of these visualizations. The finetuned DEPLOT model is evaluated against its base version using a test set of 1,000 images and two metrics: Relative Mapping Similarity (RMS), which measures categorical mapping accuracy, and Relative Number Set Similarity (RNSS), which evaluates numerical interpretation accuracy. To further explore the reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs), we curate an additional set of 100 bar chart images paired with question answer sets. Our findings demonstrate that providing a structured intermediate table alongside the image significantly enhances LLM reasoning performance compared to direct image queries.





## DRIVINGVQA: Analyzing Visual Chain-of-Thought Reasoning of Vision Language Models in Real-World Scenarios with Driving Theory Tests
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04671v1
- **Authors**: ['Charles Corbière', 'Simon Roburin', 'Syrielle Montariol', 'Antoine Bosselut', 'Alexandre Alahi']
- **Abstrat**: Large vision-language models (LVLMs) augment language models with visual understanding, enabling multimodal reasoning. However, due to the modality gap between textual and visual data, they often face significant challenges, such as over-reliance on text priors, hallucinations, and limited capacity for complex visual reasoning. Existing benchmarks to evaluate visual reasoning in LVLMs often rely on schematic or synthetic images and on imprecise machine-generated explanations. To bridge the modality gap, we present DrivingVQA, a new benchmark derived from driving theory tests to evaluate visual chain-of-thought reasoning in complex real-world scenarios. It offers 3,931 expert-crafted multiple-choice problems and interleaved explanations grounded with entities relevant to the reasoning process. We leverage this dataset to perform an extensive study of LVLMs' ability to reason about complex visual scenarios. Our experiments reveal that open-source and proprietary LVLMs struggle with visual chain-of-thought reasoning under zero-shot settings. We investigate training strategies that leverage relevant entities to improve visual reasoning. Notably, we observe a performance boost of up to 7\% when reasoning over image tokens of cropped regions tied to these entities.





## Assessing Language Comprehension in Large Language Models Using Construction Grammar
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04661v1
- **Authors**: ['Wesley Scivetti', 'Melissa Torgbi', 'Austin Blodgett', 'Mollie Shichman', 'Taylor Hudson', 'Claire Bonial', 'Harish Tayyar Madabushi']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models, despite their significant capabilities, are known to fail in surprising and unpredictable ways. Evaluating their true `understanding' of language is particularly challenging due to the extensive web-scale data they are trained on. Therefore, we construct an evaluation to systematically assess natural language understanding (NLU) in LLMs by leveraging Construction Grammar (CxG), which provides insights into the meaning captured by linguistic elements known as constructions (Cxns). CxG is well-suited for this purpose because provides a theoretical basis to construct targeted evaluation sets. These datasets are carefully constructed to include examples which are unlikely to appear in pre-training data, yet intuitive and easy for humans to understand, enabling a more targeted and reliable assessment. Our experiments focus on downstream natural language inference and reasoning tasks by comparing LLMs' understanding of the underlying meanings communicated through 8 unique Cxns with that of humans. The results show that while LLMs demonstrate some knowledge of constructional information, even the latest models including GPT-o1 struggle with abstract meanings conveyed by these Cxns, as demonstrated in cases where test sentences are dissimilar to their pre-training data. We argue that such cases provide a more accurate test of true language understanding, highlighting key limitations in LLMs' semantic capabilities. We make our novel dataset and associated experimental data including prompts and model responses publicly available.





## Multi-task retriever fine-tuning for domain-specific and efficient RAG
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04652v1
- **Authors**: ['Patrice Béchard', 'Orlando Marquez Ayala']
- **Abstrat**: Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has become ubiquitous when deploying Large Language Models (LLMs), as it can address typical limitations such as generating hallucinated or outdated information. However, when building real-world RAG applications, practical issues arise. First, the retrieved information is generally domain-specific. Since it is computationally expensive to fine-tune LLMs, it is more feasible to fine-tune the retriever to improve the quality of the data included in the LLM input. Second, as more applications are deployed in the same real-world system, one cannot afford to deploy separate retrievers. Moreover, these RAG applications normally retrieve different kinds of data. Our solution is to instruction fine-tune a small retriever encoder on a variety of domain-specific tasks to allow us to deploy one encoder that can serve many use cases, thereby achieving low-cost, scalability, and speed. We show how this encoder generalizes to out-of-domain settings as well as to an unseen retrieval task on real-world enterprise use cases.




