# large language model
## AxBench: Steering LLMs? Even Simple Baselines Outperform Sparse Autoencoders
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.17148v2
- **Authors**: ['Zhengxuan Wu', 'Aryaman Arora', 'Atticus Geiger', 'Zheng Wang', 'Jing Huang', 'Dan Jurafsky', 'Christopher D. Manning', 'Christopher Potts']
- **Abstrat**: Fine-grained steering of language model outputs is essential for safety and reliability. Prompting and finetuning are widely used to achieve these goals, but interpretability researchers have proposed a variety of representation-based techniques as well, including sparse autoencoders (SAEs), linear artificial tomography, supervised steering vectors, linear probes, and representation finetuning. At present, there is no benchmark for making direct comparisons between these proposals. Therefore, we introduce AxBench, a large-scale benchmark for steering and concept detection, and report experiments on Gemma-2-2B and 9B. For steering, we find that prompting outperforms all existing methods, followed by finetuning. For concept detection, representation-based methods such as difference-in-means, perform the best. On both evaluations, SAEs are not competitive. We introduce a novel weakly-supervised representational method (Rank-1 Representation Finetuning; ReFT-r1), which is competitive on both tasks while providing the interpretability advantages that prompting lacks. Along with AxBench, we train and publicly release SAE-scale feature dictionaries for ReFT-r1 and DiffMean.





## ATTNChecker: Highly-Optimized Fault Tolerant Attention for Large Language Model Training
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.11720v3
- **Authors**: ['Yuhang Liang', 'Xinyi Li', 'Jie Ren', 'Ang Li', 'Bo Fang', 'Jieyang Chen']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable performance in various natural language processing tasks. However, the training of these models is computationally intensive and susceptible to faults, particularly in the attention mechanism, which is a critical component of transformer-based LLMs. In this paper, we investigate the impact of faults on LLM training, focusing on INF, NaN, and near-INF values in the computation results with systematic fault injection experiments. We observe the propagation patterns of these errors, which can trigger non-trainable states in the model and disrupt training, forcing the procedure to load from checkpoints. To mitigate the impact of these faults, we propose ATTNChecker, the first Algorithm-Based Fault Tolerance (ABFT) technique tailored for the attention mechanism in LLMs. ATTNChecker is designed based on fault propagation patterns of LLM and incorporates performance optimization to adapt to both system reliability and model vulnerability while providing lightweight protection for fast LLM training. Evaluations on four LLMs show that ATTNChecker incurs on average 7% overhead on training while detecting and correcting all extreme errors. Compared with the state-of-the-art checkpoint/restore approach, ATTNChecker reduces recovery overhead by up to 49x.





## Large Language Models and Code Security: A Systematic Literature Review
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15004v2
- **Authors**: ['Enna Basic', 'Alberto Giaretta']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) have emerged as powerful tools for automating various programming tasks, including security-related ones, such as detecting and fixing vulnerabilities. Despite their promising capabilities, when required to produce or modify pre-existing code, LLMs could introduce vulnerabilities unbeknown to the programmer. When analyzing code, they could miss clear vulnerabilities or signal nonexistent ones. In this Systematic Literature Review (SLR), we aim to investigate both the security benefits and potential drawbacks of using LLMs for a variety of code-related tasks. In particular, first we focus on the types of vulnerabilities that could be introduced by LLMs, when used for producing code. Second, we analyze the capabilities of LLMs to detect and fix vulnerabilities, in any given code, and how the prompting strategy of choice impacts their performance in these two tasks. Last, we provide an in-depth analysis on how data poisoning attacks on LLMs can impact performance in the aforementioned tasks.





## DynEx: Dynamic Code Synthesis with Structured Design Exploration for Accelerated Exploratory Programming
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.00400v2
- **Authors**: ['Jenny Ma', 'Karthik Sreedhar', 'Vivian Liu', 'Pedro Alejandro Perez', 'Sitong Wang', 'Riya Sahni', 'Lydia B. Chilton']
- **Abstrat**: Recent advancements in large language models have significantly expedited the process of generating front-end code. This allows users to rapidly prototype user interfaces and ideate through code, a process known as exploratory programming. However, existing LLM code generation tools focus more on technical implementation details rather than finding the right design given a particular problem. We present DynEx, an LLM-based method for design exploration in accelerated exploratory programming. DynEx introduces a technique to explore the design space through a structured Design Matrix before creating the prototype with a modular, stepwise approach to LLM code generation. Code is generated sequentially, and users can test and approve each step before moving onto the next. A user study of 10 experts found that DynEx increased design exploration and enabled the creation of more complex and varied prototypes compared to a Claude Artifact baseline. We conclude with a discussion of the implications of design exploration for exploratory programming.





## Learning Beyond the Surface: How Far Can Continual Pre-Training with LoRA Enhance LLMs' Domain-Specific Insight Learning?
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.17840v1
- **Authors**: ['Pouya Pezeshkpour', 'Estevam Hruschka']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable performance on various tasks, yet their ability to extract and internalize deeper insights from domain-specific datasets remains underexplored. In this study, we investigate how continual pre-training can enhance LLMs' capacity for insight learning across three distinct forms: declarative, statistical, and probabilistic insights. Focusing on two critical domains: medicine and finance, we employ LoRA to train LLMs on two existing datasets. To evaluate each insight type, we create benchmarks to measure how well continual pre-training helps models go beyond surface-level knowledge. We also assess the impact of document modification on capturing insights. The results show that, while continual pre-training on original documents has a marginal effect, modifying documents to retain only essential information significantly enhances the insight-learning capabilities of LLMs.





## Generated Data with Fake Privacy: Hidden Dangers of Fine-tuning Large Language Models on Generated Data
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.11423v2
- **Authors**: ['Atilla Akkus', 'Masoud Poorghaffar Aghdam', 'Mingjie Li', 'Junjie Chu', 'Michael Backes', 'Yang Zhang', 'Sinem Sav']
- **Abstrat**: Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated significant success in various domain-specific tasks, with their performance often improving substantially after fine-tuning. However, fine-tuning with real-world data introduces privacy risks. To mitigate these risks, developers increasingly rely on synthetic data generation as an alternative to using real data, as data generated by traditional models is believed to be different from real-world data. However, with the advanced capabilities of LLMs, the distinction between real data and data generated by these models has become nearly indistinguishable. This convergence introduces similar privacy risks for generated data to those associated with real data. Our study investigates whether fine-tuning with LLM-generated data truly enhances privacy or introduces additional privacy risks by examining the structural characteristics of data generated by LLMs, focusing on two primary fine-tuning approaches: supervised fine-tuning (SFT) with unstructured (plain-text) generated data and self-instruct tuning. In the scenario of SFT, the data is put into a particular instruction tuning format used by previous studies. We use Personal Information Identifier (PII) leakage and Membership Inference Attacks (MIAs) on the Pythia Model Suite and Open Pre-trained Transformer (OPT) to measure privacy risks. Notably, after fine-tuning with unstructured generated data, the rate of successful PII extractions for Pythia increased by over 20%, highlighting the potential privacy implications of such approaches. Furthermore, the ROC-AUC score of MIAs for Pythia-6.9b, the second biggest model of the suite, increases over 40% after self-instruct tuning. Our results indicate the potential privacy risks associated with fine-tuning LLMs using generated data, underscoring the need for careful consideration of privacy safeguards in such approaches.




