# large language model
## BoostStep: Boosting mathematical capability of Large Language Models via improved single-step reasoning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03226v1
- **Authors**: ['Beichen Zhang', 'Yuhong Liu', 'Xiaoyi Dong', 'Yuhang Zang', 'Pan Zhang', 'Haodong Duan', 'Yuhang Cao', 'Dahua Lin', 'Jiaqi Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Cutting-edge large language models (LLMs) demonstrate promising performance in solving complex math problems with a divide-and-conquer pipeline and the assistance of in-context learning (ICL) examples. However, their potential for improvement is limited by two critical problems within their ICL examples: granularity-mismatch and the ensuing negative-effect noise problem. Specifically, the LLMs are capable of the dividing process yet mostly failed by inaccurate reasoning within a few conquer steps, while the ICL examples retrieved in question-grained sometimes lack relevant steps for a specific challenging reasoning step. Further, this disconnect may hinder the correct reasoning due to its irrelevance. To this end, we focus on improving the reasoning quality within each step and present BoostStep. BoostStep aligns the granularity between the retrieving and reasoning on step grained, and provides highly related ICL examples for each reasoning step with a novel `first-try' strategy. BoostStep provides more relevant examples than the coarse question-grained strategy, enhancing the model reasoning quality within each step steadily. BoostStep is a general and robust reasoning-enhancing method that not only improves standalone reasoning performance but also integrates seamlessly with Monte Carlo Tree Search methods (MCTS) to refine both candidate generation and decision-making. Quantitatively, it improves GPT-4o and Qwen2.5-Math-72B by 3.6\% and 2.0\% respectively on various mathematical benchmarks, and 7.5\% gain combined with MCTS.





## Leveraging Explainable AI for LLM Text Attribution: Differentiating Human-Written and Multiple LLMs-Generated Text
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03212v1
- **Authors**: ['Ayat Najjar', 'Huthaifa I. Ashqar', 'Omar Darwish', 'Eman Hammad']
- **Abstrat**: The development of Generative AI Large Language Models (LLMs) raised the alarm regarding identifying content produced through generative AI or humans. In one case, issues arise when students heavily rely on such tools in a manner that can affect the development of their writing or coding skills. Other issues of plagiarism also apply. This study aims to support efforts to detect and identify textual content generated using LLM tools. We hypothesize that LLMs-generated text is detectable by machine learning (ML), and investigate ML models that can recognize and differentiate texts generated by multiple LLMs tools. We leverage several ML and Deep Learning (DL) algorithms such as Random Forest (RF), and Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN), and utilized Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) to understand the important features in attribution. Our method is divided into 1) binary classification to differentiate between human-written and AI-text, and 2) multi classification, to differentiate between human-written text and the text generated by the five different LLM tools (ChatGPT, LLaMA, Google Bard, Claude, and Perplexity). Results show high accuracy in the multi and binary classification. Our model outperformed GPTZero with 98.5\% accuracy to 78.3\%. Notably, GPTZero was unable to recognize about 4.2\% of the observations, but our model was able to recognize the complete test dataset. XAI results showed that understanding feature importance across different classes enables detailed author/source profiles. Further, aiding in attribution and supporting plagiarism detection by highlighting unique stylistic and structural elements ensuring robust content originality verification.





## Detecting AI-Generated Text in Educational Content: Leveraging Machine Learning and Explainable AI for Academic Integrity
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03203v1
- **Authors**: ['Ayat A. Najjar', 'Huthaifa I. Ashqar', 'Omar A. Darwish', 'Eman Hammad']
- **Abstrat**: This study seeks to enhance academic integrity by providing tools to detect AI-generated content in student work using advanced technologies. The findings promote transparency and accountability, helping educators maintain ethical standards and supporting the responsible integration of AI in education. A key contribution of this work is the generation of the CyberHumanAI dataset, which has 1000 observations, 500 of which are written by humans and the other 500 produced by ChatGPT. We evaluate various machine learning (ML) and deep learning (DL) algorithms on the CyberHumanAI dataset comparing human-written and AI-generated content from Large Language Models (LLMs) (i.e., ChatGPT). Results demonstrate that traditional ML algorithms, specifically XGBoost and Random Forest, achieve high performance (83% and 81% accuracies respectively). Results also show that classifying shorter content seems to be more challenging than classifying longer content. Further, using Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) we identify discriminative features influencing the ML model's predictions, where human-written content tends to use a practical language (e.g., use and allow). Meanwhile AI-generated text is characterized by more abstract and formal terms (e.g., realm and employ). Finally, a comparative analysis with GPTZero show that our narrowly focused, simple, and fine-tuned model can outperform generalized systems like GPTZero. The proposed model achieved approximately 77.5% accuracy compared to GPTZero's 48.5% accuracy when tasked to classify Pure AI, Pure Human, and mixed class. GPTZero showed a tendency to classify challenging and small-content cases as either mixed or unrecognized while our proposed model showed a more balanced performance across the three classes.





## Context Awareness Gate For Retrieval Augmented Generation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.16133v2
- **Authors**: ['Mohammad Hassan Heydari', 'Arshia Hemmat', 'Erfan Naman', 'Afsaneh Fatemi']
- **Abstrat**: Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) has emerged as a widely adopted approach to mitigate the limitations of large language models (LLMs) in answering domain-specific questions. Previous research has predominantly focused on improving the accuracy and quality of retrieved data chunks to enhance the overall performance of the generation pipeline. However, despite ongoing advancements, the critical issue of retrieving irrelevant information -- which can impair the ability of the model to utilize its internal knowledge effectively -- has received minimal attention. In this work, we investigate the impact of retrieving irrelevant information in open-domain question answering, highlighting its significant detrimental effect on the quality of LLM outputs. To address this challenge, we propose the Context Awareness Gate (CAG) architecture, a novel mechanism that dynamically adjusts the LLMs' input prompt based on whether the user query necessitates external context retrieval. Additionally, we introduce the Vector Candidates method, a core mathematical component of CAG that is statistical, LLM-independent, and highly scalable. We further examine the distributions of relationships between contexts and questions, presenting a statistical analysis of these distributions. This analysis can be leveraged to enhance the context retrieval process in Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) systems.





## ICONS: Influence Consensus for Vision-Language Data Selection
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.00654v2
- **Authors**: ['Xindi Wu', 'Mengzhou Xia', 'Rulin Shao', 'Zhiwei Deng', 'Pang Wei Koh', 'Olga Russakovsky']
- **Abstrat**: Visual Instruction Tuning typically requires a large amount of vision-language training data. This data often containing redundant information that increases computational costs without proportional performance gains. In this work, we introduce ICONS, a gradient-driven Influence CONsensus approach for vision-language data Selection that selects a compact training dataset for efficient multi-task training. The key element of our approach is cross-task influence consensus, which uses majority voting across task-specific influence matrices to identify samples that are consistently valuable across multiple tasks, allowing us to effectively prioritize data that optimizes for overall performance. Experiments show that models trained on our selected data (20% of LLaVA-665K) achieve 98.6% of the relative performance obtained using the full dataset. Additionally, we release this subset, LLaVA-ICONS-133K, a compact yet highly informative subset of LLaVA-665K visual instruction tuning data, preserving high impact training data for efficient vision-language model development.





## CLIX: Cross-Lingual Explanations of Idiomatic Expressions
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03191v1
- **Authors**: ['Aaron Gluck', 'Katharina von der Wense', 'Maria Pacheco']
- **Abstrat**: Automated definition generation systems have been proposed to support vocabulary expansion for language learners. The main barrier to the success of these systems is that learners often struggle to understand definitions due to the presence of potentially unfamiliar words and grammar, particularly when non-standard language is involved. To address these challenges, we propose CLIX, the task of Cross-Lingual explanations of Idiomatic eXpressions. We explore the capabilities of current NLP models for this task, and observe that while it remains challenging, large language models show promise. Finally, we perform a detailed error analysis to highlight the key challenges that need to be addressed before we can reliably incorporate these systems into educational tools.




