# large language model
## DarwinLM: Evolutionary Structured Pruning of Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07780v1
- **Authors**: ['Shengkun Tang', 'Oliver Sieberling', 'Eldar Kurtic', 'Zhiqiang Shen', 'Dan Alistarh']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved significant success across various NLP tasks. However, their massive computational costs limit their widespread use, particularly in real-time applications. Structured pruning offers an effective solution by compressing models and directly providing end-to-end speed improvements, regardless of the hardware environment. Meanwhile, different components of the model exhibit varying sensitivities towards pruning, calling for \emph{non-uniform} model compression. However, a pruning method should not only identify a capable substructure, but also account for post-compression training. To this end, we propose \sysname, a method for \emph{training-aware} structured pruning. \sysname builds upon an evolutionary search process, generating multiple offspring models in each generation through mutation, and selecting the fittest for survival. To assess the effect of post-training, we incorporate a lightweight, multistep training process within the offspring population, progressively increasing the number of tokens and eliminating poorly performing models in each selection stage. We validate our method through extensive experiments on Llama-2-7B, Llama-3.1-8B and Qwen-2.5-14B-Instruct, achieving state-of-the-art performance for structured pruning. For instance, \sysname surpasses ShearedLlama while requiring $5\times$ less training data during post-compression training.





## OLMES: A Standard for Language Model Evaluations
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.08446v2
- **Authors**: ['Yuling Gu', 'Oyvind Tafjord', 'Bailey Kuehl', 'Dany Haddad', 'Jesse Dodge', 'Hannaneh Hajishirzi']
- **Abstrat**: Progress in AI is often demonstrated by new models claiming improved performance on tasks measuring model capabilities. Evaluating language models can be particularly challenging, as choices of how a model is evaluated on a task can lead to large changes in measured performance. There is no common standard setup, so different models are evaluated on the same tasks in different ways, leading to claims about which models perform best not being reproducible. We propose OLMES, a completely documented, practical, open standard for reproducible LLM evaluations. In developing this standard, we identify and review the varying factors in evaluation practices adopted by the community - such as details of prompt formatting, choice of in-context examples, probability normalizations, and task formulation. In particular, OLMES supports meaningful comparisons between smaller base models that require the unnatural "cloze" formulation of multiple-choice questions against larger models that can utilize the original formulation. OLMES includes well-considered, documented recommendations guided by results from existing literature as well as new experiments resolving open questions.





## Auditing Prompt Caching in Language Model APIs
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07776v1
- **Authors**: ['Chenchen Gu', 'Xiang Lisa Li', 'Rohith Kuditipudi', 'Percy Liang', 'Tatsunori Hashimoto']
- **Abstrat**: Prompt caching in large language models (LLMs) results in data-dependent timing variations: cached prompts are processed faster than non-cached prompts. These timing differences introduce the risk of side-channel timing attacks. For example, if the cache is shared across users, an attacker could identify cached prompts from fast API response times to learn information about other users' prompts. Because prompt caching may cause privacy leakage, transparency around the caching policies of API providers is important. To this end, we develop and conduct statistical audits to detect prompt caching in real-world LLM API providers. We detect global cache sharing across users in seven API providers, including OpenAI, resulting in potential privacy leakage about users' prompts. Timing variations due to prompt caching can also result in leakage of information about model architecture. Namely, we find evidence that OpenAI's embedding model is a decoder-only Transformer, which was previously not publicly known.





## Automatic Robot Task Planning by Integrating Large Language Model with Genetic Programming
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07772v1
- **Authors**: ['Azizjon Kobilov', 'Jianglin Lan']
- **Abstrat**: Accurate task planning is critical for controlling autonomous systems, such as robots, drones, and self-driving vehicles. Behavior Trees (BTs) are considered one of the most prominent control-policy-defining frameworks in task planning, due to their modularity, flexibility, and reusability. Generating reliable and accurate BT-based control policies for robotic systems remains challenging and often requires domain expertise. In this paper, we present the LLM-GP-BT technique that leverages the Large Language Model (LLM) and Genetic Programming (GP) to automate the generation and configuration of BTs. The LLM-GP-BT technique processes robot task commands expressed in human natural language and converts them into accurate and reliable BT-based task plans in a computationally efficient and user-friendly manner. The proposed technique is systematically developed and validated through simulation experiments, demonstrating its potential to streamline task planning for autonomous systems.





## Effect of Adaptive Communication Support on LLM-powered Human-Robot Collaboration
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.06808v2
- **Authors**: ['Shipeng Liu', 'FNU Shrutika', 'Boshen Zhang', 'Zhehui Huang', 'Gaurav Sukhatme', 'Feifei Qian']
- **Abstrat**: Effective human-robot collaboration requires robot to adopt their roles and levels of support based on human needs, task requirements, and complexity. Traditional human-robot teaming often relies on a pre-determined robot communication scheme, restricting teamwork adaptability in complex tasks. Leveraging strong communication capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs), we propose a Human-Robot Teaming Framework with Multi-Modal Language feedback (HRT-ML), a framework designed to enhance human-robot interaction by adjusting the frequency and content of language-based feedback. HRT-ML framework includes two core modules: a Coordinator for high-level, low-frequency strategic guidance, and a Manager for subtask-specific, high-frequency instructions, enabling passive and active interactions with human teammates. To assess the impact of language feedback in collaborative scenarios, we conducted experiments in an enhanced Overcooked environment with varying levels of task complexity (easy, medium, hard) and feedback frequency (inactive, passive, active, superactive). Our results show that as task complexity increases relative to human capabilities, human teammates exhibited a stronger preference towards robotic agents that can offer frequent, proactive support. However, when task complexities exceed the LLM's capacity, noisy and inaccurate feedback from superactive robotic agents can instead hinder team performance, as it requires human teammates to increase their effort to interpret and respond to a large number of communications, with limited performance return. Our results offer a general principle for robotic agents to dynamically adjust their levels and frequencies of communications to work seamlessly with humans and achieve improved teaming performance.





## Great Power Brings Great Responsibility: Personalizing Conversational AI for Diverse Problem-Solvers
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07763v1
- **Authors**: ['Italo Santos', 'Katia Romero Felizardo', 'Igor Steinmacher', 'Marco A. Gerosa']
- **Abstrat**: Newcomers onboarding to Open Source Software (OSS) projects face many challenges. Large Language Models (LLMs), like ChatGPT, have emerged as potential resources for answering questions and providing guidance, with many developers now turning to ChatGPT over traditional Q&A sites like Stack Overflow. Nonetheless, LLMs may carry biases in presenting information, which can be especially impactful for newcomers whose problem-solving styles may not be broadly represented. This raises important questions about the accessibility of AI-driven support for newcomers to OSS projects. This vision paper outlines the potential of adapting AI responses to various problem-solving styles to avoid privileging a particular subgroup. We discuss the potential of AI persona-based prompt engineering as a strategy for interacting with AI. This study invites further research to refine AI-based tools to better support contributions to OSS projects.





## Cache Me If You Must: Adaptive Key-Value Quantization for Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.19392v2
- **Authors**: ['Alina Shutova', 'Vladimir Malinovskii', 'Vage Egiazarian', 'Denis Kuznedelev', 'Denis Mazur', 'Nikita Surkov', 'Ivan Ermakov', 'Dan Alistarh']
- **Abstrat**: Efficient real-world deployments of large language models (LLMs) rely on Key-Value (KV) caching for processing and generating long outputs, reducing the need for repetitive computation. For large contexts, Key-Value caches can take up tens of gigabytes of device memory, as they store vector representations for each token and layer. Recent work has shown that the cached vectors can be compressed through quantization, pruning or merging, but these techniques often compromise quality towards higher compression rates. In this work, we aim to improve Key & Value compression by exploiting two observations: 1) the inherent dependencies between keys and values across different layers, and 2) high-compression mechanisms for internal network states. We propose AQUA-KV, an adaptive quantization for Key-Value caches that relies on compact adapters to exploit existing dependencies between Keys and Values, and aims to "optimally" compress the information that cannot be predicted. AQUA-KV significantly improves compression rates, while maintaining high accuracy on state-of-the-art LLM families. On Llama 3.2 LLMs, we achieve near-lossless inference at 2-2.5 bits per value with under $1\%$ relative error in perplexity and LongBench scores. AQUA-KV is one-shot, simple, and efficient: it can be calibrated on a single GPU within 1-6 hours, even for 70B models.





## Language Model Council: Democratically Benchmarking Foundation Models on Highly Subjective Tasks
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.08598v3
- **Authors**: ['Justin Zhao', 'Flor Miriam Plaza-del-Arco', 'Benjie Genchel', 'Amanda Cercas Curry']
- **Abstrat**: As Large Language Models (LLMs) continue to evolve, evaluating them remains a persistent challenge. Many recent evaluations use LLMs as judges to score outputs from other LLMs, often relying on a single large model like GPT-4o. However, using a single LLM judge is prone to intra-model bias, and many tasks - such as those related to emotional intelligence, creative writing, and persuasiveness - may be too subjective for a single model to judge fairly. We introduce the Language Model Council (LMC), where a group of LLMs collaborate to create tests, respond to them, and evaluate each other's responses to produce a ranking in a democratic fashion. Unlike previous approaches that focus on reducing cost or bias by using a panel of smaller models, our work examines the benefits and nuances of a fully inclusive LLM evaluation system. In a detailed case study on emotional intelligence, we deploy a council of 20 recent LLMs to rank each other on open-ended responses to interpersonal conflicts. Our results show that the LMC produces rankings that are more separable and more robust, and through a user study, we show that they are more consistent with human evaluations than any individual LLM judge. Using all LLMs for judging can be costly, however, so we use Monte Carlo simulations and hand-curated sub-councils to study hypothetical council compositions and discuss the value of the incremental LLM judge.





## Towards Efficient Optimizer Design for LLM via Structured Fisher Approximation with a Low-Rank Extension
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07752v1
- **Authors**: ['Wenbo Gong', 'Meyer Scetbon', 'Chao Ma', 'Edward Meeds']
- **Abstrat**: Designing efficient optimizers for large language models (LLMs) with low-memory requirements and fast convergence is an important and challenging problem. This paper makes a step towards the systematic design of such optimizers through the lens of structured Fisher information matrix (FIM) approximation. We show that many state-of-the-art efficient optimizers can be viewed as solutions to FIM approximation (under the Frobenius norm) with specific structural assumptions. Building on these insights, we propose two design recommendations of practical efficient optimizers for LLMs, involving the careful selection of structural assumptions to balance generality and efficiency, and enhancing memory efficiency of optimizers with general structures through a novel low-rank extension framework. We demonstrate how to use each design approach by deriving new memory-efficient optimizers: Row and Column Scaled SGD (RACS) and Adaptive low-dimensional subspace estimation (Alice). Experiments on LLaMA pre-training (up to 1B parameters) validate the effectiveness, showing faster and better convergence than existing memory-efficient baselines and Adam with little memory overhead. Notably, Alice achieves better than 2x faster convergence over Adam, while RACS delivers strong performance on the 1B model with SGD-like memory.





## Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback with Active Queries
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09401v2
- **Authors**: ['Kaixuan Ji', 'Jiafan He', 'Quanquan Gu']
- **Abstrat**: Aligning large language models (LLM) with human preference plays a key role in building modern generative models and can be achieved by reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF). Despite their superior performance, current RLHF approaches often require a large amount of human-labelled preference data, which is expensive to collect. In this paper, inspired by the success of active learning, we address this problem by proposing query-efficient RLHF methods. We first formalize the alignment problem as a contextual dueling bandit problem and design an active-query-based proximal policy optimization (APPO) algorithm with an $\tilde{O}(d^2/\Delta)$ instance-dependent regret bound and an $\tilde{O}(d^2/\Delta^2)$ query complexity, where $d$ is the dimension of feature space and $\Delta$ is the sub-optimality gap over all the contexts. We then propose ADPO, a practical version of our algorithm based on direct preference optimization (DPO) and apply it to fine-tuning LLMs. Our experiments show that ADPO, while only making about half of queries for human preference, matches the performance of the state-of-the-art DPO method.





## WHODUNIT: Evaluation benchmark for culprit detection in mystery stories
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07747v1
- **Authors**: ['Kshitij Gupta']
- **Abstrat**: We present a novel data set, WhoDunIt, to assess the deductive reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLM) within narrative contexts. Constructed from open domain mystery novels and short stories, the dataset challenges LLMs to identify the perpetrator after reading and comprehending the story. To evaluate model robustness, we apply a range of character-level name augmentations, including original names, name swaps, and substitutions with well-known real and/or fictional entities from popular discourse. We further use various prompting styles to investigate the influence of prompting on deductive reasoning accuracy.   We conduct evaluation study with state-of-the-art models, specifically GPT-4o, GPT-4-turbo, and GPT-4o-mini, evaluated through multiple trials with majority response selection to ensure reliability. The results demonstrate that while LLMs perform reliably on unaltered texts, accuracy diminishes with certain name substitutions, particularly those with wide recognition. This dataset is publicly available here.





## Training Language Models to Reason Efficiently
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04463v2
- **Authors**: ['Daman Arora', 'Andrea Zanette']
- **Abstrat**: Scaling model size and training data has led to great advances in the performance of Large Language Models (LLMs). However, the diminishing returns of this approach necessitate alternative methods to improve model capabilities, particularly in tasks requiring advanced reasoning. Large reasoning models, which leverage long chain-of-thoughts, bring unprecedented breakthroughs in problem-solving capabilities but at a substantial deployment cost associated to longer generations. Reducing inference costs is crucial for the economic feasibility, user experience, and environmental sustainability of these models.   In this work, we propose to train large reasoning models to reason efficiently. More precisely, we use reinforcement learning (RL) to train reasoning models to dynamically allocate inference-time compute based on task complexity. Our method incentivizes models to minimize unnecessary computational overhead while maintaining accuracy, thereby achieving substantial efficiency gains. It enables the derivation of a family of reasoning models with varying efficiency levels, controlled via a single hyperparameter. Experiments on two open-weight large reasoning models demonstrate significant reductions in inference cost while preserving most of the accuracy.




