# large language model
## AxBench: Steering LLMs? Even Simple Baselines Outperform Sparse Autoencoders
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.17148v1
- **Authors**: ['Zhengxuan Wu', 'Aryaman Arora', 'Atticus Geiger', 'Zheng Wang', 'Jing Huang', 'Dan Jurafsky', 'Christopher D. Manning', 'Christopher Potts']
- **Abstrat**: Fine-grained steering of language model outputs is essential for safety and reliability. Prompting and finetuning are widely used to achieve these goals, but interpretability researchers have proposed a variety of representation-based techniques as well, including sparse autoencoders (SAEs), linear artificial tomography, supervised steering vectors, linear probes, and representation finetuning. At present, there is no benchmark for making direct comparisons between these proposals. Therefore, we introduce AxBench, a large-scale benchmark for steering and concept detection, and report experiments on Gemma-2-2B and 9B. For steering, we find that prompting outperforms all existing methods, followed by finetuning. For concept detection, representation-based methods such as difference-in-means, perform the best. On both evaluations, SAEs are not competitive. We introduce a novel weakly-supervised representational method (Rank-1 Representation Finetuning; ReFT-r1), which is competitive on both tasks while providing the interpretability advantages that prompting lacks. Along with AxBench, we train and publicly release SAE-scale feature dictionaries for ReFT-r1 and DiffMean.





## FactCG: Enhancing Fact Checkers with Graph-Based Multi-Hop Data
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.17144v1
- **Authors**: ['Deren Lei', 'Yaxi Li', 'Siyao Li', 'Mengya Hu', 'Rui Xu', 'Ken Archer', 'Mingyu Wang', 'Emily Ching', 'Alex Deng']
- **Abstrat**: Prior research on training grounded factuality classification models to detect hallucinations in large language models (LLMs) has relied on public natural language inference (NLI) data and synthetic data. However, conventional NLI datasets are not well-suited for document-level reasoning, which is critical for detecting LLM hallucinations. Recent approaches to document-level synthetic data generation involve iteratively removing sentences from documents and annotating factuality using LLM-based prompts. While effective, this method is computationally expensive for long documents and limited by the LLM's capabilities. In this work, we analyze the differences between existing synthetic training data used in state-of-the-art models and real LLM output claims. Based on our findings, we propose a novel approach for synthetic data generation, CG2C, that leverages multi-hop reasoning on context graphs extracted from documents. Our fact checker model, FactCG, demonstrates improved performance with more connected reasoning, using the same backbone models. Experiments show it even outperforms GPT-4-o on the LLM-Aggrefact benchmark with much smaller model size.





## Abstract Operations Research Modeling Using Natural Language Inputs
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.07272v2
- **Authors**: ['Junxuan Li', 'Ryan Wickman', 'Sahil Bhatnagar', 'Raj Kumar Maity', 'Arko Mukherjee']
- **Abstrat**: Operations research (OR) uses mathematical models to enhance decision-making, but developing these models requires expert knowledge and can be time-consuming. Automated mathematical programming (AMP) has emerged to simplify this process, but existing systems have limitations. This paper introduces a novel methodology that uses recent advances in Large Language Model (LLM) to create and edit OR solutions from non-expert user queries expressed using Natural Language. This reduces the need for domain expertise and the time to formulate a problem. The paper presents an end-to-end pipeline, named NL2OR, that generates solutions to OR problems from natural language input, and shares experimental results on several important OR problems.





## ASTRAL: Automated Safety Testing of Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.17132v1
- **Authors**: ['Miriam Ugarte', 'Pablo Valle', 'José Antonio Parejo', 'Sergio Segura', 'Aitor Arrieta']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) have recently gained attention due to their ability to understand and generate sophisticated human-like content. However, ensuring their safety is paramount as they might provide harmful and unsafe responses. Existing LLM testing frameworks address various safety-related concerns (e.g., drugs, terrorism, animal abuse) but often face challenges due to unbalanced and obsolete datasets. In this paper, we present ASTRAL, a tool that automates the generation and execution of test cases (i.e., prompts) for testing the safety of LLMs. First, we introduce a novel black-box coverage criterion to generate balanced and diverse unsafe test inputs across a diverse set of safety categories as well as linguistic writing characteristics (i.e., different style and persuasive writing techniques). Second, we propose an LLM-based approach that leverages Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG), few-shot prompting strategies and web browsing to generate up-to-date test inputs. Lastly, similar to current LLM test automation techniques, we leverage LLMs as test oracles to distinguish between safe and unsafe test outputs, allowing a fully automated testing approach. We conduct an extensive evaluation on well-known LLMs, revealing the following key findings: i) GPT3.5 outperforms other LLMs when acting as the test oracle, accurately detecting unsafe responses, and even surpassing more recent LLMs (e.g., GPT-4), as well as LLMs that are specifically tailored to detect unsafe LLM outputs (e.g., LlamaGuard); ii) the results confirm that our approach can uncover nearly twice as many unsafe LLM behaviors with the same number of test inputs compared to currently used static datasets; and iii) our black-box coverage criterion combined with web browsing can effectively guide the LLM on generating up-to-date unsafe test inputs, significantly increasing the number of unsafe LLM behaviors.





## Coupling without Communication and Drafter-Invariant Speculative Decoding
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.07978v3
- **Authors**: ['Majid Daliri', 'Christopher Musco', 'Ananda Theertha Suresh']
- **Abstrat**: Suppose Alice has a distribution $P$ and Bob has a distribution $Q$. Alice wants to draw a sample $a\sim P$ and Bob a sample $b \sim Q$ such that $a = b$ with as high of probability as possible. It is well-known that, by sampling from an optimal coupling between the distributions, Alice and Bob can achieve $\Pr[a = b] = 1 - D_{TV}(P,Q)$, where $D_{TV}(P,Q)$ is the total variation distance between $P$ and $Q$. What if Alice and Bob must solve this same problem \emph{without communicating at all?} Perhaps surprisingly, with access to public randomness, they can still achieve $\Pr[a = b] \geq \frac{1 -D_{TV}(P,Q)}{1 + D_{TV}(P,Q)} \geq 1-2D_{TV}(P,Q)$ using a simple protocol based on the Weighted MinHash algorithm. This bound was shown to be optimal in the worst-case by [Bavarian et al., 2020]. In this work, we revisit the communication-free coupling problem. We provide a simpler proof of the optimality result from [Bavarian et al., 2020]. We show that, while the worst-case success probability of Weighted MinHash cannot be improved, an equally simple protocol based on Gumbel sampling offers a Pareto improvement: for every pair of distributions $P, Q$, Gumbel sampling achieves an equal or higher value of $\Pr[a = b]$ than Weighted MinHash. Importantly, this improvement translates to practice. We demonstrate an application of communication-free coupling to \emph{speculative decoding}, a recent method for accelerating autoregressive large language models [Leviathan, Kalman, Matias, ICML 2023]. We show that communication-free protocols can be used to contruct \emph{\CSD{}} schemes, which have the desirable property that their output is fixed given a fixed random seed, regardless of what drafter is used for speculation. In experiments on a language generation task, Gumbel sampling outperforms Weighted MinHash. Code is available at https://github.com/majid-daliri/DISD.





## Scenario Understanding of Traffic Scenes Through Large Visual Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.17131v1
- **Authors**: ['Rivera Esteban', 'Lübberstedt Jannik', 'Nico Uhlemann', 'Markus Lienkamp']
- **Abstrat**: Deep learning models for autonomous driving, encompassing perception, planning, and control, depend on vast datasets to achieve their high performance. However, their generalization often suffers due to domain-specific data distributions, making an effective scene-based categorization of samples necessary to improve their reliability across diverse domains. Manual captioning, though valuable, is both labor-intensive and time-consuming, creating a bottleneck in the data annotation process. Large Visual Language Models (LVLMs) present a compelling solution by automating image analysis and categorization through contextual queries, often without requiring retraining for new categories. In this study, we evaluate the capabilities of LVLMs, including GPT-4 and LLaVA, to understand and classify urban traffic scenes on both an in-house dataset and the BDD100K. We propose a scalable captioning pipeline that integrates state-of-the-art models, enabling a flexible deployment on new datasets. Our analysis, combining quantitative metrics with qualitative insights, demonstrates the effectiveness of LVLMs to understand urban traffic scenarios and highlights their potential as an efficient tool for data-driven advancements in autonomous driving.





## Optimizing Large Language Model Training Using FP4 Quantization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.17116v1
- **Authors**: ['Ruizhe Wang', 'Yeyun Gong', 'Xiao Liu', 'Guoshuai Zhao', 'Ziyue Yang', 'Baining Guo', 'Zhengjun Zha', 'Peng Cheng']
- **Abstrat**: The growing computational demands of training large language models (LLMs) necessitate more efficient methods. Quantized training presents a promising solution by enabling low-bit arithmetic operations to reduce these costs. While FP8 precision has demonstrated feasibility, leveraging FP4 remains a challenge due to significant quantization errors and limited representational capacity. This work introduces the first FP4 training framework for LLMs, addressing these challenges with two key innovations: a differentiable quantization estimator for precise weight updates and an outlier clamping and compensation strategy to prevent activation collapse. To ensure stability, the framework integrates a mixed-precision training scheme and vector-wise quantization. Experimental results demonstrate that our FP4 framework achieves accuracy comparable to BF16 and FP8, with minimal degradation, scaling effectively to 13B-parameter LLMs trained on up to 100B tokens. With the emergence of next-generation hardware supporting FP4, our framework sets a foundation for efficient ultra-low precision training.




